In this video, I'm going to give you a brief introduction to the origins of ETG and I will discuss

some advantages and limitations of using EEG as a research or clinical tool.

Now, I would like to point out that in this video and pretty much the entire course, everything that

I say about EEG, electroencephalography also refers to M.G. and to LSP and to really any signal that

is measured at discrete, regular time points.

But in general, I just stick to using EEG just to make the terminology convenient.

All right.

So let me actually start by showing you a little bit of EEG data.

So if you've never seen EEG data here, you get a little bit of a sense of what some typical EEG data

look like.

So this figure here shows the voltage fluctuations over time from 64 different channels that are placed

on the head.

You will see later on in this and in later videos in this introduction section what those electrodes

look like, how they're placed on the head and so on.

But the idea is that you have a bunch of electrodes placed on the scalp, so outside the head and they

are while they're touching the scalp or they're connected to the scalp through a little bit of gel or

a sponge, and they measure the voltage activity that comes from populations of neurons in the brain.

I'll talk more about that in the next slide so you can see that there are some striking features of

EEG.

So there's a lot of really small deflections.

Some of that is noise.

Some of that is high frequency activity.

And then there are some kind of slower fluctuation.

You see, some patterns of activity are consistent across many electrodes and some are a little bit

more local and they're just isolated to a single electrode.

Very often with EEG.

If you see unique activity on one electrode that you don't see on any other electrode, it's probably

some noise contamination.

Now, this time scale here, it's a little bit difficult to interpret.

So it's time in milliseconds.

But this is actually not continuous time.

And that's because what I've done is cut up the data into three separate trials or Epic's.

And I've highlighted this middle one in yellow, not because it's particularly special, but just to

help you see the distinction between this apoc, this apoc and this apoc.

And the reason why I suspect these data is that there was a particular event that happened.

So we were recording EEG of a volunteer research participant while that person was looking at a computer

screen and various things were happening.

So there was a cognitive task that was happening while we were recording the data.

So there was a picture that appeared on the screen and then the subject, the participant had to press

a button with their hand to indicate their judgment about that picture.

And so you see that there are these these are called markers or ttle pulses that go vertically through

the data set like this.

And that shows the exact timing of particular events.

So this marker 31 here, you can see it here.

That was when the picture appeared on the screen.

So we call that time zero and then we time lock the data to the onset of that picture.

Here's when the button press was made.

In this case, this happened at around, let's say, is maybe 900 milliseconds.

So it's a little bit under a second.

Here you see the same marker.

Thirty one, it appears again at time zero.

And here the marker one, the value one happens at around maybe that's around 700 milliseconds.

So the picture was on the screen.

But now this individual pressed the button a little bit faster on this trial compared to this trial.

So these kinds of markers are important because they allow us to synchronize what's happening inside

the brain with what was happening in the behavior in the screen.

Maybe there are sounds playing, you know, whatever is the nature of the experiment.

OK, so this gives you a bit of a sense of what EEG data look like, but where do EEG data come from?

Well, here we have drawings of a neuron, a brain cell.

You can see they have this kind of fat, triangular shaped body and this long extension up here.

These are the dendrites.

And another extension going down here.

This is the axon.

Neurons communicate with each other through electrochemical signaling.

And essentially what happens when a neuron becomes active?

There is a flow of ions, a transmission of.

Electrically charged ions that go into the neuron and out of the neuron and this flow has a spatial

organization, and that creates this asymmetry in a spatial asymmetry of ions flowing into the neuron

versus ions flowing out of the neuron.

Now, this generates an electrical field, just like when you run a current through a wire, you're

also going to generate an electrical field.

If we have a really, really tiny electrode that goes through the brain and is sitting right next to

this electrode, we can actually measure the this electrical field coming from one individual neuron.

However, what we do with EEG is we put a larger electrode on the scalp, so on the skin outside the

head.

Now, this electrode cannot measure the activity of a single neuron.

However, it turns out that in the brain, many, many, many neurons become active synchronously.

So they are active at the same time.

And their electrical fields are individually really, really small and weak.

But collectively, they end up being large and powerful.

So powerful, in fact, that the electrical fields transmit the volume conduct through brain tissue,

through the skull, through the skin, and they can be measured from the surface of the skin without

actually piercing through any body tissue, without actually pushing anything into the head.

And that is the concept of EEG.

Now, this is a like really brief introduction to the biophysical origin of EEG.

There is a lot more complications.

There's a lot of biological and physical biophysical details that are involved in every aspect of populations

that are generating the signal.

But that is the gist of it, and that is where we get these wiggles from.

So these wiggles every time, you know, the lines are going up and down.

These are voltage deflections that reflect the instantaneous activity of these populations of cells.

So an electrode like this that's sitting outside the head is going to be measuring these synchronous

activity from anywhere from a few tens of thousands of cells to hundreds of thousands to millions of

cells that are all active synchronously.

I'm going to talk more about this issue later in this video, because that turns out to be one of the

limitations of the of EEG.

So here you see another view of this.

So this is depicting a brain, someone's head being sliced through the middle here and here you see

an EEG electrode.

And this will be an example of the kind of deflection that you might see in an EEG signal.

Now, the thing is, we have a pretty good understanding of why EEG exists.

That is to say, there is a reasonably sufficient, not totally perfect, but a reasonably good understanding

of neurobiology, biochemistry, biophysics and engineering principles to explain why we are able to

record these large scale voltage potentials coming from the brain.

However, that just accounts for the existence of EEG.

So we have a good understanding of why EEG exists.

But that's generally not what we are interested in as neuroscientists, as cognitive scientists, as

psychologists.

Instead, what we are generally interested in is what these signals mean.

Not so much where exactly they come from, but what is this Wigo mean?

You know, the fact that it's you know, it's increasing in amplitude here and here.

It's at a slightly slower frequency here.

It's at a slightly faster frequency.

This is longer lasting.

This is transient and so on.

There is information that is being computed in the brain and that manifests as this voltage fluctuation

in the EEG signal.

Now, the thing is that cognition and thinking and memories and perception and so on, that doesn't

come from these large wiggles like this.

Cognition is actually coming from the really complex, dynamic interactions between different brain

cells of different types, different molecular signatures, different morphologies distributed over

different layers of the cortex, different brain regions, et cetera, et cetera.

So the question is how?

What can we say about the brain computations based on the signals that we can measure?

Now, that turns out to be a really, really hard problem that I call the content of the EEG.

So the existence of EEG is relatively well known, the content.

The signal is really unknown, this is something that we are all working towards and, you know, we're

making progress, but we lack a really good understanding of the content of EEG.

And in order to understand the content of EEG, you will need to analyze the signal appropriately to

get the most information that you can out of this signal.

And, of course, you know, that's kind of the goal of this whole course.

All right.

So now I would like to discuss some advantages of measuring electrophysiology from the brain.

One advantage is that it is a direct measure of electrical brain activity.

As I mentioned a moment ago, this is important because we know that the brain or that neurons communicate

with each other through the transmission of electrical signals and electrochemical signals.

So the fact that we can record electrical activity noninvasively in humans is actually pretty remarkable.

It's pretty amazing that we can do that because that is a direct measure of the medium of information

computation in the brain.

Now, here you see a picture of actual neurons.

This was a cartoon here.

These are cartoon pictures, more even more abstracted cartoon pictures.

These are what the actual neurons look like.

And here you see this is in a slice of some brain tissue.

And this thing here shows a really, really tiny electrode.

You can see this scale.

This is a tenth of a millimeter.

This is a really, really tiny electrode that is actually able to isolate the electrical activity from

one individual neuron.

And if you would measure its membrane potential, it would look something like this.

You can see that these are spikes corresponding to action potentials.

This would be some little packet of information being transmitted to the next brain cell.

OK, so that's one advantage of EEG.

Another advantage of EEG is that its temporal resolution and also its temporal precision are really

high.

So we can measure EEG at a kilohertz and much higher.

So one data point every millisecond and we can also measure faster than one data point every millisecond.

And the reason why this is important is that cognition happens at the speed of tens of milliseconds

to hundreds of milliseconds to a few seconds.

So it's nice to have a brain measurement method that can measure the brain at the same speed as cognition

occurs.

EEG data are also extremely rich.

They are very complex.

There's a lot of information that's packed into the EEG signal and this allows for many kinds of analyses,

physiologically inspired analyses, to be performed on the data.

And of course, you will learn that throughout the rest of this class.

Another advantage of measuring EEG and electrophysiology more generally is that it is one of the few

techniques in neuroscience that allow us to link findings across many different spatial and temporal

scales, different methods and different species.

And that is because you see similar kinds of patterns of electrical temporal activity at many different

spatial scales of the of the brain.

I understand the universe, but let's just talk about, you know, the universe of the brain here.

So we have going from individual neurons to small clusters to larger ensembles and all the way up to

really large scale interactions of brain regions.

So we go from a single neuron and even sub neuron compartments like individual dendritic branches all

the way up to the coordinated activity of millions of cells.

And at every spatial scale, we can measure meaningful electrical activity.

Now, in this course, we are going to be focusing a lot on neural oscillations.

This is Narrabeen activity or rhythmic like sinusoidal like activity.

This is also a remarkable feature of the brain because these rhythmic patterns of electrical activity

are remarkably conserved across different species.

So what you see here in this plot is a graph of brain weight, which is also, you know, a measure

of brain size.

So from really small brains up to large brains, and here you see dominant temporal patterns of rhythmic

activity.

So this is frequency of EEG and the fact that these are all flat lines, horizontal, flat line, mostly

flat horizontal lines.

Shows that in many different species, we have dominant peaks in the spectrum at the same or very similar

frequencies, so we can measure gamma band oscillations in humans, in macaques, in cats, in rats,

in mice, even insects like honeybees and locusts have you know, they have tiny, tiny, tiny brains.

But their brains exhibit temporal patterns of electrical activity that seem to be really, really similar

to the patterns of electrical activity that we can measure in humans.

So that is a pretty remarkable feature of brains in general, neural systems.

And we can access and study those consistent features across evolution using electrophysiology.

All right.

So that said, now I want to talk about some disadvantages of EEG.

So one disadvantage is that it is limited to synchronous large scale potentials.

So here I showed this plot of the activity of a single neuron.

You cannot measure the activity of a single neuron from EEG.

Its electrical field is too weak to be measured from so far away.

And that is an important disadvantage to keep in mind, because not all of the computations in the brain

are happening at the level of large spatial scales.

There are many, many computations that are happening in the brain at a spatial scale that is too small

to be measured with EEG.

On the other hand, you know, it's not possible to do these kinds of very detailed local recordings

in in humans, certainly not in healthy, awake humans or healthy any kind of humans, regardless of

whether they're awake or asleep or anything.

Another related disadvantage of EEG is that because it is measuring these electrical fields, if you

have two opposing electrical fields, so a dipole in the cortex here and a dipole on the other side

of the sulcus here, if these two dipoles, these two circuits are active at the same time, their electrical

fields will actually cancel and you will not be able to measure a signal, even though there is a large

amount of activity in these two dipoles.

So you can have electrical fields from geometrically opposing dipoles cancel out, leading to zero change

in the voltage that you can measure with EEG.

OK, so this is sort of off limits.

There's tons of stuff that's happening in the brain that is invisible to EEG.

Another disadvantage is that there is a lot of uncertainty and anatomical localization.

So remember, with EEG and M.G., we are not actually measuring activity directly, spatially, directly

from the brain.

It is electrical activity coming from the brain, but we measure it from outside.

So it's sometimes an interesting question.

Where in the brain does this EEG signal come from?

And there are mathematical methods to estimate a spatial distribution of activity that might have produced

the observed distribution of EEG activity.

However, there's a lot of uncertainties in this kind of anatomical localization, and I'm actually

not going to get into this issue in this course.

And that's mainly because there is already so much rich information in the temporal and spectral and

spatial information in EEG that we don't necessarily need to estimate the physical location of the brain

signals.

OK, another disadvantage is that well, this is the flip side of what I mentioned as an advantage,

and that is that the data are really complex.

They are multidimensional.

There's a lot of signals.

There's a lot of noise that all get mixed together in the EEG and therefore proper data analysis, particularly

physiologically inspired and relevant data analyses are difficult.

They're complicated.

They're time-Consuming, and they can be a bit frustrating.

That is a real disadvantage.

It can take a long time not only to learn how to analyze EEG data properly, but also even once you

are comfortable, once you're an expert at analyzing EEG data, it can still take quite a bit of time.

And the final disadvantage of EEG that I will discuss here is actually also the flip side of EEG having

really high temporal precision and high temporal resolution.

Now, this can be good, this high temporal.

Decision can be a good thing if you know exactly when something happened in the experiment, and that's

similar to this plot here where I showed you that we can determine with millisecond precision exactly

when the picture appeared on the screen and exactly when the research participant pressed the button.

However, if you're having some kind of a slow if you're studying a slower cognitive process, you might

not know exactly when that process happens.

And therefore, the temporal precision of EEG is actually going to be a disadvantage.

For example, imagine you are having your research participants.

Let's say they are reading a paragraph, they're reading a short story, and they have to come up with

some hypothesis about what's happening in that story.

And in this case, you might not know exactly when they come up with that hypothesis.

So it would be difficult to say exactly, you know, with with some temporal precision on the order

of milliseconds when that particular cognitive process occurred.

OK, so in this video, I gave a brief introduction to EEG, the origins, what the data look like and

the advantages and limitations of EEG.

In the next video, I'm going to continue showing plots that look like this and discuss some of the

artifacts that leak into EEG data.

Some of these artifacts you need to worry about and other artifacts are not a major concern.