Data cleaning is a really important step in analyses, in fact, if you don't have clean data, if you're

really noisy, ugly, artifact ridden data, it's pretty unlikely that you are going to get good results

out of any kind of analysis that you apply.

So it's important to start with clean data.

Now, cleaning data is not only a really big topic in data analysis, it's also a really difficult topic

to cover in a kind of non-specific way.

And that is because the appropriate the optimal data cleaning strategies tend to vary widely depending

on the kind of equipment you're using, the kind of experiment you're running, the kinds of analyses

you plan on applying.

And so it's generally not possible to give one simple lecture that will cover data cleaning for everyone

that will always be appropriate.

So instead, what I'm going to do in this video is talk a little bit about the kinds of artifacts that

you will often see in EEG data.

And I'll talk a little bit about which artifacts you should worry about and remove from the data and

which artifacts are safe to ignore.

And so the way I'm going to do this is I'm just going to show a couple of slides of EEG data.

So you already saw pictures that look something like this showing this EEG data viewer.

This comes from the toolbox, EEG Lab..

And then I'm just going to talk a little bit about the kinds of things that you can see on these data.

So I strongly recommend doing visual based artefact rejection.

So that means that before you start analyzing your data, it's a good idea to look through all of the

data you can see over all, in this case, 60 well, the 64 skalp channels and then a handful of external

channels.

So it's around 70 channels here.

And I'm looking at all of them.

And this particular plot spans 10 trials.

So we can just visualize all the data from 10 trials here and then we can continue this and look through

all the data for all the trials in the experiment, all of the data Epic's.

I believe that it's really important to have a at least a quick cursory glance at all of the raw data

before getting into the analyses that will help you get a feel for whether there are artifacts, what

kinds of artifacts are and anything weird that you might see in different channels or different aspects.

So the idea is that you look at the data rather quickly.

You don't want to spend a huge amount of time.

And when you see big artifacts in the data, you can identify those data aspects and simply remove them

or make a decision about whether you think that it might be possible to isolate and separate out that

artifact.

So here you see the 64 channels.

As I mentioned briefly, these are actually not EEG channels.

These are other channels in the data set.

In this case, they are channels from the muscles in the fingers that the research participant was using

to press buttons on a response box.

So these channels look really wild.

And if you were just looking at these data and you didn't know anything about the experiment, then

you might come to the conclusion that these channels are a horribly artifact ridden and should be removed.

In fact, these are muscle measuring muscle activity, not brain activity.

So these channels are all fine.

One thing that you can see that's prominent in these data is these big deflections here like this and

this.

You can see they spend not all the channels, but you can see it on many channels.

So these turn out to be eyeblink.

This is each time the subject blinked his eye or her eye.

I've no idea where this data set comes from.

So each time the participant blinked their eye, you see this large deflection.

This comes from some combination of the muscles in the eyes and the eyeballs spinning around a little

bit.

And that creates these large electrical deflections that are measured in EEG.

You can see that these eye blink artifacts are orders of magnitude larger than the normal.

So the normal, you know, brain driven EEG are these tiny little wiggles in here really zoomed out

on this picture and then you see these huge deflections.

Now, it turns out that a procedure called Independent Components Analysis will nicely isolate these

Blinkx components and allow you to separate the brain component from the brain driven data without having

to remove the data.

So you don't actually need to remove data based on the presence of a blink artifact.

That kind of artifact will easily come out in the independent components analysis.

And then there's another couple of small art.

As you see, so, for example, you can see there's this really transient burst of high frequency activity

right here.

Now it looks like this is separate, but actually these are the same event.

You can see this marker is also the same 10 18 is the same here and here.

So when you cut Epic's in your data like this, it sometimes happens that you have overlapping Epic's.

They have repeated data in the epic series.

So we can ask whether we should reject this trial, whether we should remove this trial of data, the

entire trial because of this tiny little artifact here.

Now, this is the case where things start to get a little bit subjective because you can probably find

some people who would say, yes, this is an artifact and we should reject the data.

In my opinion, I would say that this is fine.

This is a little bit of an artifact, but you can see it's pretty restrictive.

So it's restricted both in time.

It's very transient and it's also very restricted in space.

It's mostly present on these very interior channels that are really on the forehead here.

So these are, you know, F.P. one's frontal polar and these are just the really interior channels up

here.

So I think part of the reason why we collect a lot of data from many, many trials, many, many minutes

of resting state, whatever is your experiment, you're collecting a lot of data.

And so the reason why you collect a lot of data is to be able to make sure your analyses are robust

to small little, you know, kind of weird non representative samples like this.

So when I see a tiny artifact like this, I would just leave it in there.

OK, here we see a different screen.

This is showing a much larger artifact.

So it looks a little bit similar to what I showed on the previous screen, where you see a lot of like

dense high frequency activity.

But here it's both longer in time and it's also really distributed in space.

So basically every electrode or probably every single electrode shows this artifact.

So the question is, what caused this artifact?

This is probably something mechanical that the individual, the subject, the research participant was

doing with the cap, maybe they were scratching their head, maybe they were sort of pushing on the

EEG cap or something.

Maybe they were spinning their head around.

I think there is a cognitive reason why this artifact is present.

The subject was, I think, distracted from the task.

He or she was not really paying attention in this time window because they were doing something with

the EEG cap.

So therefore, I would remove this trial.

Here you see another example of a little artifact that, you know, it's a little bit annoying to have

these kinds of small artifacts.

But again, when you collect a lot of data, you don't have to worry about throwing out this entire

trial just because of this one really temporally brief and also spatially localized artifact.

So you can see it's a little bit subjective.

Here's where it also starts getting subjective.

This is a similar looking artifact to what I showed in the previous slide that I said should be removed.

And here I'm not so sure whether this trial needs to be removed from the data.

You can see that this artifact is brief.

It starts right at the beginning of the data.

So this is one data apoc.

This is a trial.

This is the next trial.

So you can see this is only happening in the very, very beginning and we get normal EEG again by the

time that we get to the time equals zero marker, which was the trial on set, the visual stimulus that

appeared on the computer screen.

Now, you will learn later in this course, in the section on time frequency analysis that there are

this phenomenon.

When you filter data, it's called an edge effect.

And essentially what happens is when you're doing a time frequency analysis, you get artifacts, you

get uninterpretable data at the very beginning of the data apoc and also at the very end of the data

EPIK.

And so the solution, the best solution for dealing with EDG artifacts is to cut off the data after

you apply the time frequency analysis.

So I call that the buffer zone.

So you want to create a bit of a buffer zone in the data to absorb these edge effects that come from

filtering.

So again, you will learn more about why that happens later on in the course.

But the reason why I mentioned it here is that this little artifact is in the buffer zone.

And so I'm going to throw out this window of time anyway after doing the filtering.

So therefore, I would say to leave this trial in the data set because all of the rest of the data here

are valid.

OK, so here is one more picture that I'm going to show here and discuss.

You can see there are two kinds of artifacts that you see in this picture.

One is this brief EMG burst over here and you can see this is actually not so temporally brief.

This spends a little bit more than half a second.

So this is quite a you know, it's a relatively long period of time for an artifact, but it is kind

of spatially restricted.

So it doesn't affect all of these channels if we look at what channels it affects.

These are the posterior lateral channels.

So maybe the subject was, you know, maybe they twitch the shoulder or something briefly or sort of

move their ear or something that caused some muscle activity that infected the EEG signal here.

So now you know, whether to remove the trial, this entire trial, this yellow period, just based

on this artifact, this one gets a little bit difficult to say.

It is right around the time that we might be interested in analyzing the data.

So it kind of depends on where on the on the scalp you where you are most interested in looking for

effects.

For example, if your study is all about frontal cortex processing, you're actually not really going

to be paying much attention to the electrodes in the back of the head.

So therefore, an artifact like this is actually not going to affect all the frontal channels which

are all in here.

You can see these data look perfect.

They look really nice.

They look very clean.

Another possibility is to run independent components analysis and see whether the ACA will isolate a

particular component that reflects this EMG activity.

And if it does, then it might be possible to remove that component, to project that component out

of the data and thereby remove this EMG artifact without affecting the underlying data.

That's kind of, you know, some on top that's mixed together with this EMG signal.

OK, so this is a little bit difficult to say unambiguously whether this trial should be rejected.

And then we have this other artifact here and it looks like there's just something weird happening with

this electrode.

You can see it's kind of normal looking EEG activity and then it jumps up and then here jumps up and

then it's jumping down.

So there's looks like there's real brain activity plus some electrical artifact that's happening simultaneously.

So these kinds of artifacts can also be difficult to know what to do with.

So you have a few options for how to address these kinds of artifacts.

Well, one thing you can do, so one option is just to completely remove that electrode from the data

and then interpolate it so, you know, mathematically calculate what that what the activity at that

electrode could be based on what the neighboring electrodes look like.

So that could be an OK solution, except that it looks like there's real brain activity, plus this

little artifact.

And I usually try to avoid removing a channel entirely only because of a an artifact if that channel

also has real brain signal on it.

Now, if this artifact happened only, let's say once, maybe it was only this one trial and it never

happened again, then I would probably just reject this one trial.

And then that's fine.

You could combine these two methods that I just suggested and do single trial, single channel interpolation.

So let's say this channel was, you know, funky only on these four trials and the rest of the data

set.

Maybe there's 500 trials.

So four out of five hundred trials have this kind of wonky artifact and the rest of the trials look

fine.

So therefore, you could interpolate these on this one channel only on these four trials and not on

the rest of the data set.

A third option would be to run independent components analysis and see whether ICRA will determine will

isolate an artifact that just relates to.

Ah, yeah.

That isolates this artifact alone.

Now, in my experience, sometimes that works and sometimes that doesn't work.

When I say it doesn't work, I mean, the artifact will be mixed in with any independent components.

It will get mixed in with signals.

So it won't be possible to separate out this artifact, this jump here from the underlying brain activity.

So unfortunately, these kinds of things are annoying.

Really, the best thing to do is when you are collecting the data in the first place.

If you are running the experiment, then you should keep a close eye on the data.

And if you notice that an electorate is going wonky like this, then you can, if possible, depends

a bit on the experiment.

But if possible, you can go pause the experiment and go into the experiment chamber, the EEG recording

chamber, and try to fix this electrode to avoid.

Having this problem in the first place, so that's a few examples of different kinds of artifacts that

you might see in EEG data, I hope you can appreciate that cleaning data is really important, but it's

also a little bit dependent on the specific kind of data you have and what you are looking for and what

are the other common procedures that are used in the lab that you work in.

So it's difficult for me to say unambiguously how to address every kind of signal artifact.

But I will say that data cleaning is really important.

You should do a really careful, meticulous job cleaning all of your data.

It will make the rest of your analyses much smoother, much easier and much better.