 When learning about data analysis methods, it's useful to have some actual data to work with to apply those analysis methods to in this course, we are going to be using three different kinds of data, two of which are empirical data sets. And that's what I'm going to tell you about in this video. So these are two data sets that were measured in actual biological organisms. These are real data. And the third kind of data is going to be simulated data where we are going to be generating data rather than measuring it from the universe. And I will talk more about the simulated data analysis methods in a few videos from now. So one of the two data sets that we will be working with is an EEG data set. It was recorded from a human being, so from a research participant and the participant was doing a particular cognitive task that involved looking at colored circles. And then they have to press the button with the left hand or the right hand. The details of the experiment are not important for this course and they're not important for the data set. This is mostly just data that we are going to be using to apply analyses to these. This experiment is is published in a paper and the data set, which is the file name, is called Sample EEG Data, and it is one data set out of I don't even remember how many data sets, but maybe twenty or twenty five. So it's a little bit of data from this published study. We have 64 electrodes placed on the scalp. So this just shows you a picture of what with a Styrofoam head of what the EEG cap looks like and the data are provided in a lab format. This is a free tool box that people often use for analyzing EEG data. Now, if you are curious about the EEG lab toolbox, you can download it. It's free, you can run it on Matlab. However, you do not need this toolbox for this course. So don't worry about getting this toolbox and installing this toolbox. You don't need the toolbox for this course. It's just that I keep the data in the lab format. So this is one of the data sets. The other data set comes from a mouse recording and in this case we were able to push the electrode directly into the brain. This is a tiny, tiny electrode is really, really thin. And there are 16 electrode points that are on the electrode. And these electrode points span the depth of the cortex in area V1. This is the primary visual processing area of the mouse. And the mouse is also doing an experiment. While we were recording the data and in the experiment, there was a there was a really simple stimulation protocol. So at time zero, there was a checkerboard look like a like a chessboard, like this visual stimulus that appeared on the screen in front of the mouse. And then after half of a second, the contrast reversed. So you can see that all of the white squares turn into black squares and vice versa. So this is basically the entire experiment and the data look a little bit like this. You can see the electrodes here and time here. Now, based on the previous video, you might expect this to be a time frequency plot, but this is not a time frequency plot. This is actually a time space plot because the Y axis doesn't show frequency. This shows the electrodes, which corresponds to the physical location of each contact point in the brain into the cortex here. So what you're looking at here is activity, voltage changes in voltage fluctuations over time and through different depths of the cortex. OK, so that is a brief introduction to the two empirical data sets that we are going to be working with for the rest of this course. In the next two videos, I'm going to switch to Matlab and I will show you a little bit about more detail about these data sets, how the data are organized and so on. So I will see you in the next video.