So let us continue exploring the other major data set that we are going to be working with throughout

this course.

So this is in a file called V1 Laminar.

So let's load in this data.

And now we want to check out the variables in this map file.

So I'm going to do that by exploring the workspace and typing who's.

But, you know, the problem is that I was already creating a bunch of variables from earlier in this

script, which was that previous video.

So I don't really know which variables are inside this matte file and which variables were created above.

So what I'm going to do is clear out the entire workspace.

I'm going to delete permanently erase everything in the Matlab workspace.

So I do that by typing clear.

And you always have to be careful when you were just typing clear like that so you can type clear and

then one variable so I can say time to plot.

So now notice we have in our workspace is variable time to plot and now I type clear time to plot and

then who's again.

And now time to plot is gone.

But all the other variables are here.

If you just type clear, that's going to eliminate all of the variables.

So whenever you type clear on its own, you just have to be mindful.

Maybe you spent, you know, the past 20 minutes carefully, painstakingly creating one really important

variable and then, oops, it's gone.

So we can type clues and now there's nothing.

Now, of course, I need to load this back in again so we can see.

So this date, this this data does not contain an EEG structure.

The data have a slightly different format.

If there is some similarities that we see that there's a variable C SD that actually stands for current

source density and that is a 3D cube of data, looks really similar to the data structure.

So we can already guess that there are going to be sixteen channels, fifteen hundred twenty seven time

points and two hundred trials.

So 200 repetitions of the same visual stimulus.

And then we have a variable s rate which is just a scalar, it's just one number and then time back,

which we can guess is the vector of time points.

And of course not surprisingly that is the same size as the second dimension of the CCDs variable.

Let's see what the sampling rate is.

The sampling rate is some kind of bizarre number, seven hundred and sixty two point nine three nine

five.

So that's just what the sampling rate happens to be.

All right.

So let's see now.

We want to plot the ERP from Channel seven, all in one line of code.

So we saw up here in the previous video, we created the ERP from all of the channels here, and then

we plotted for only one channel.

And what they are asking us to do here is only plot from one chat, the ERP from one channel in one

line of code, so we can say 60 and then we want a Channel seven.

So this has to be a seven.

And then the ERP is all the time points all of the channels and then of course we need to average.

So I'm going to say the mean of this matrix over the third dimension, right.

Because the third dimension corresponds to the trials.

All right, let's close that.

And then it's always tough to tell whether there's some other coding mistake somewhere in here.

But let's just see.

Let's see.

I'm just going to plot this ERP, OK?

So so far, this works.

This seems plausible.

We get our time vector here.

So we have from minus point five, I assume this is seconds up to around one point five seconds.

And clearly there is something interesting happening at time equals zero that causes this huge deflection.

And then there's something else happening somewhere around zero point five seconds.

And that causes this second deflection.

And it's really intense pattern of deflections, which turns out to be gamma oscillations.

We will see the frequency structure of this gamma activity later on.

That is later on in the course, not later on in this video.

So then there's a bunch of other plotting commands here.

And essentially these are just adding some, you know, some additional guidelines here.

So this shows the zero line here.

So zero micro volts.

And then this is the onset of the first stimulus.

This is the onset of the second visual stimulus.

And then we have some labels and so on.

All right.

There you go.

That looks pretty good.

The next thing that we are supposed to do here is plot a depth by time image of the ERP by averaging

over trials.

So now this electrode shank doesn't have a topographical geometry that is similar to the EEG data that

we looked at in the previous video, instead, it is all in one linear array.

So it's like a line and all these 16 electrodes are just printed onto that line or sort of built in

to that line.

So if we want to look at the activity over space, then we have to create a line instead of producing

that topographical map that you saw previously.

So to do this, I'm using the function contour f the contour is going to draw ISO contours and the F

is fulfilled and then we are plotting on the X axis is the time vector.

The Y axis is just the numbers one through 16 that corresponds to the channels.

And then here we're plotting the CFD matrix, the data matrix, and we are averaging over the third

dimension which remember is trials, 200 trials.

So let's see what this thing looks like.

All right.

So here so first of all, it's nice to know that there is no mistakes, nothing we had to do in this

line.

So what you see here is the cortical depth on the y axis.

So this is the depth into the cortex.

And here we see time on the x axis.

So this is actually different from the topographical map because the topographical map of the EEG activity

showed one time point, one single time point, and then you saw how the activity was distributed over

space.

Here you see space is on the y axis.

And then we get to see all of the time points simultaneously so we can see how this activity is evolving

over time and over space.

And so it's pretty interesting you see this sourcing patterns here.

So when you look vertically and you see blue and red in the same time window, so these are the ions

flowing into the neurons, the ions flowing out of the neurons.

And you see where the first stimulus was.

And then here is the second the second stimulus was around here.

So here's the cortical response to the second stimulus.

And then it's also interesting to see that this this phase, like gamma oscillations here, you can

see that that gamma is not happening everywhere in the cortex.

It's mainly happening in a couple of channels.

Now, if you're familiar with cortical anatomy and the laminar structure of cortex, then Channel six

to seven corresponds to layer four.

These are the primary inputs into the cortex from the thalamus.

The anatomy doesn't matter so much here.

The important thing is to see that there are dynamics over time and dynamics over space.

And of course, there are also dynamics happening over different frequencies.

And that's invisible in this plot.

We don't see any spectral activity in this plot yet.

That's going to come later in the course.

All right.

But the main point here was to gain some familiarity working with this CCDs data set.