Every major section of this course will end with a problem set.

This is a Matlab code script like this one here for the introduction section that gives a lot of kind

of challenging problems, multipart problems.

They should take you quite a while to solve.

And the idea is that these problems that will allow you to test and further expand your knowledge of

the information that you learned in that section of the course and also in previous sections, because

the course generally precedes in a cumulative fashion.

So I'm not going to actually solve any of the problem sets in this particular video.

I just want to take a moment to introduce you to the idea so you are aware of what to do and how this

works.

So I've written instructions in comments for this problem set and of course, for all the other problems

that's in the other sections as well.

I hope that these are self-explanatory.

Essentially, you will look through this code and you will see there's comments that'll say, you know,

the goal of this exercise is whatever.

And then there's comments here.

You can already see that some of these lines of code are missing.

So there are missing lines of code.

Sometimes there is a correct answer.

Sometimes it's just up to you to specify whatever parameter you feel like.

So in this data simulation, do you want to generate one thousand time points?

Or maybe you want to generate one thousand and three time points?

So that kind of stuff is up to you.

And then there are other cases where there's going to be questions like this.

So here's a question.

And you can say, you know, what is the effect of noise amplitude on the resulting graphs?

So you will have to figure out how to change this code to answer this question.

The effects of noise amplitude now, the resulting graphs that I'm referring to in this particular problems

that is coming from this function here.

So plot EEG, this is a function that you downloaded with the zip file for this section of the course.

If you run that function, then that's going to generate some visual output that will allow you to view

the simulated data that you have generated.

So I always provide two matching scripts.

There is the problem set itself and then there is the solution set.

So if you look through these solutions, then you'll see these are all of my solutions to these problems.

Now, obviously, you should not look at the solutions until you first had a chance to go through the

problems yourself and get as far as you can with the problems.

OK, so that is the general statement that I'm going to make about every problem set for the rest of

this course.

And then just a quick note about this particular problem set.

So let's see.

There are I think there are eight.

Uh, yeah.

So in total, there are eight things that are supposed to do.

There are eight problems that you are supposed to solve in this problem set.

And in order to prevent this video or the next video from getting too long, I'm going to break this

up into two separate videos.

So in the next video, I'm going to walk you through my solution.

So I'm going to solve all of these exercises, these problems, while talking about the solution.

That's going to be really interesting for you, because I'm not only just going to give you the answer,

I'm going to talk a lot about why it's the right answer, how to change the solutions, how to adapt

the models and so on.

So I'm going to do problems one through four in the next video and then problems five through eight

in the video after that.

So I hope that you will use this as an opportunity to test and improve your skills.

So please run through all of this code yourself, solve as many problems as you can here on your own,

and then come back and watch the next two videos.