Here is something totally, totally mind bogglingly wacky.

It has absolutely nothing to do with signal processing or matlab or, you know, anything, but it is.

So it does have something to do with the brain, but it's just something really interesting that I'd

like to think about occasionally.

So it's something about spatial scales of different things in the universe, different extremes in the

universe.

So here at the tiniest, tiniest, absolutely unfathomably tiniest scale, the universe, we have Planck

length.

This is about ten to the minus 35 meters.

And if you're not familiar with Planck length, this is basically the smallest possible spatial unit

of the universe.

And anything below Planck length, basically, like the laws of physics, just seem to break down.

I'm not a physicist, so I don't really know exactly what that means, but it's generally considered

that the Planck length is basically the smallest possible meaningful unit of space and time in the universe.

So this is tend to the minus 35 meters on the other side of the spectrum.

We have the size of the observable universe.

Now, we don't know what is the real size of the actual universe, but we think that the size or the

size that we can see, that we can infer is somewhere around 10 to the 27 meters, which is also ginormous.

And here's something really, really curious.

Probably just a coincidence, but it's curious anyway.

A neuron, a brain cell is approximately one millimeter.

It's kind of a standard length for a brain cell.

So that is 10 to the minus three meters.

So what's wacky about this is that you go from a neuron down to the smallest possible spatial scale,

the universe.

That's around 30 orders of magnitude.

Not exactly, but around 30 orders of magnitude from a neuron down to the smallest you we can get.

And going from a neuron up to the largest we can get.

So the size of the observable universe is also around 30 orders of magnitude.

So it seems like a brain cell is pretty much right in the middle of the two extremes of these spatial

scales of the universe.

I will let you ponder whether you believe that that is a cosmic coincidence or something meaningful.

But here is something else which is even crazier to think about these these scales here.

So think about the size of the entire observable universe relative to a neuron, or we can even just

think about ourselves.

So think about how mind bogglingly, unimaginably vast the entire observable universe is relative to

you.

So you looking out at the universe and thinking, man, that thing is huge.

That is the same experience that something an observer at the Planck length would think looking up at

a neuron.

So something, you know, if there can be some intelligence at the level of Planck length, I mean,

just use our sci fi imagination here.

Something at Planck length looking up to a neuron sees the neuron as huge, as unfathomably huge as

a neuron would see the entire observable universe.

Again, this little video has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with data science, programming,

neuroscience, signal processing, whatever is the reason why you're taking this course?

I just think it's super interesting and I had to tell you about it.

I hope you enjoy thinking about this.