 In this video, I'm going to explain the project that you're going to work on in this section of the course, it's a big project. There's a lot of parts to it. And I'm not giving you any starter codes. They have to write all the code for yourself. Fortunately, this project involves integrating a lot of concepts that you've already learned in this section of the course and also in the previous section of the course on connectivity Niles's. So what I'm going to do in this video is show you all of the figures that you should try to produce. And I'm just giving you a little three lines of code here. Otherwise you have to do everything yourself. All right. So the first hint is that this is the data set. So you're going to apply source separation on empirical data. These are not simulated data where we know what the ground truth is. So we just have to trust that the generalized organic composition is going to give us reasonable results, reasonable source operations. So first, when you load this in, you want to run this plot some eager, although this isn't actually simulated EEG, but anyway, if you can, of course, explore any channel you want, but if you got the data from Channel 31, you'll be able to reproduce this plot. And what you can see is that actually let me also show you what these EEG data look like. So we have 64 channels, 21 points and sixty three trials. Now, the thing is, there aren't any real trials in this experiment. This is resting state data. So the research participant was actually just sitting quietly in a room, not doing anything, not looking at anything, just sitting there quietly while we recorded EEG data for a couple of minutes. So for convenience, I've cut the data into sixty three different segments. Of let's see what is the sampling rate here is the sampling rate is one thousand twenty four, so that means this is two seconds of data. So this is 63 contiguous sections of data, segments of data. So you can actually just put them all together and concatenate them all. That also means that plotting something like an ERP doesn't really make any sense. So this is really just a flat line plus some noise, because it's totally arbitrary to cut up these data into two second segments. And I see now this says a second, but this would really say milliseconds or this should be divided by a thousand. Anyway, this is two seconds. So this you can't really interpret this. You definitely can interpret you see the typical spectral features, the two spectral features that you often see in electrophysiology data. So there's the one over F shape and then there's a peak. And in this case, the peak happens to be a little over 10 hertz, I guess, is probably around ten point five or maybe eleven hertz here. Here's a time frequency plot. Again, you can't really interpret this in terms of time because that there's nothing really happening at time. Zero to do the time talking to. So again, this is just for convenience that I've segment of the data into three dimensions. Nonetheless, you can still see there's a lot of energy at around 10 hertz and also a lot of energy at lower frequencies, less energy at higher frequencies. Again, that's the one of rough shape. All right. So this is a little bit about the data here. You see two covariance matrices. Actually, this just looks like green on the same color scale as the R covariance matrix. So the R covariance matrix comes from all the data. So the broadband signal, non filtered channel data and the S covariance matrix comes from filtering the data. And this is the filter parameters that I use. So I use this filter FDX function and the center frequency was eleven hertz and the full with that half maximum was seven hertz. All right, so then what you want to do is apply generalized organic composition on these two covariance matrices and you should find a screen plot that looks something like this. So this is now slightly more ambiguous than the screen plot for the simulated data. You'll remember in the simulated data, the noise spectrum was really flat. And then we had two huge components popping out here here in this data set. This is real data. It's a little bit harder to see where exactly the real components are. So it could be, you know, maybe these two or maybe these four, maybe it's these eight. And this is the start of the noise spectrum. It's not really clear in theory. It's possible to do some statistical analysis or some other, you know, elbo measures to try and estimate how many number of or what the number of real components is. But anyway, so for now, you just you can expect this. You should be able to generate a plot of eigenvalues that looks like this. And then what you're going to do is reconstruct these top two components. And here you see component one. And it's interesting to compare this static power spectrum and this time frequency block with this, where the one over half is much stronger relative to the peak. The peak here is weaker. And here here we've really isolated an alpha source. So you really see a really strong peak. It's actually quite narrow. And there's another little peak here at around twenty two hertz. And it's probably the harmonic of this peak here. You still actually do see the one over trend here going down, but that's much smaller relative to this alpha peak. And this is what the topography of that spatial filter looks like. And then here's the second one. You can see the topography is quite different, right? These are very different alpha sources, but they have roughly similar spectrum. This one also has a little bit more energy in the broadband component relative to the alpha component. All right. So here we get these two components that are at roughly the same frequency or maybe even exactly the same frequency, the turn data cursor mode on. Let's see. So this one peaks at eleven point one, eleven point one hertz. And this one peaks at. Ten point five hundred. OK, so they're really similar, quite overlapping, but not identical. This component, too, is a little bit slower. It's a half a hertz, slower than component one. OK, so now you take these two components and you basically want to compute a phase synchronization spectrum between them. So you want to filter the data or so you can either narrow band filter or play, uh, a complex, smaller waves of convolution. However you prefer to do it. You want to extract the phase angle time series from these two components, not your channels, but these two components that you computed here and then over a range of frequencies. In this case, I did from two hertz to 50 hertz. You want to compute phase synchronization over time between these two components. And it's pretty interesting. It's pretty remarkable, actually, to see that there's basically no synchronization between these two components at 10 hertz, which is where both of these components have a lot of energy. So they have a lot of energy there at nearly the same frequency. But they are not synchronized. They're independent of each other. Maybe there's a little bit of a bump in the synchronization spectrum here, although these values are still quite low. Point one point one five. OK, so this is phase synchronization between the first two components. After you've done this, you want to go back to the component data and now extract the first eight components, which I estimate it is, is basically all of these components that are popping out of the noise spectrum. So I made the assumption without doing any inferential statistics, this is just fairly qualitative. I assume that this is the start of the noise spectrum and these are eight interesting alpha components. So then when you extract these eight Alpha Component Time series, you can compute the Amplitude Time series and if you like, you can sum over this and get the power spectrum. Now, this is basically. So this is a sum over all the amplitude time series values. And this label is incorrect. This is actually power. This is not synchronization. This is also misspelled here. I'm embarrassed by these two errors here anyway. So as you learned in the section on time frequency analysis, or maybe it was on spectral methods, that if you sum up the power signal over time, that basically gives you just a smoothed version of the amplitude spectrum here. OK, so this part is just setting things up. So what you want to do is extract the Amplitude Time series from all of the top eight components and then you want to correlate all eight component amplitude time series with all eight component amplitude time series. And you're going to get a matrix, a correlation matrix that looks something like this. Of course, it's ones on the diagonal because every component is perfectly correlated with itself. And then it's kind of interesting to see that these are all positively correlated and a lot of these pairs of components are fairly strongly correlated. So the correlation values are getting up to, you know, point four point five. So that's a pretty respectable amount of amplitude correlations. So here you see the Amplitude Time series, or maybe it's the Power Time series for all eight components from one to second segment. And this is the correlation matrix overall. Sixty three of these segments over the entire time window. Now this here corresponds to the correlation between component one and component two. You can see that's fairly low. It's around point one, eight or something. These are the two components that also don't show a lot of synchronization, whereas that's this plot here. OK, so then the final thing that you want to do for this really massive project is to plot all the topographies for the top eight alpha component. So this is what they look like. These are the top two. I already showed these in figure four and figure five. And then here are the other components for the other eight Alpha sources. So good luck working through this project. I realize it's a lot of work to do and I don't really give you any starter code. But again, you know, just keep focused, stay on target, stay relaxed. You can do it. I believe in you and remember to copy and paste from previous code that you have studied. But be careful when copying and pasting that you're changing all the variables and parameters appropriately.