 In this video, I'm going to cover two related topics, a butterfly plus and a topographical variance time series, which is related to something called the Root Mean Square Time series. All right. So let's dive right in Lodin in the data. This is the data sample data set and immediately make a butterfly plot. So here is what a butterfly plot looks like. You can see that it looks like Earp's, except there's a lot of them. There's a lot of different colors, a lot of different lines. And the butterfly plot is basically just a plot of all the airports from all the channels overlaid on top of each other. Now, you don't really see why exactly with this earlobe reference, the this plot is called the butterfly plot. I think you will see that a bit more in the next section when I show you the butterfly plot for average reference data. So earlobe reference means that there were two reference electrodes on each of the earlobes and the left ear lobe and the right ear lobe and the voltage fluctuations and all the other channels on the scalp or computed relative to the voltage fluctuations at the ear lobe. So that's what this refers to. Now I'm going to compute the average reference and then plot again the butterfly plot. So here is the average reference. I'm using the best fun function to subtract from the data, the average of the data. And notice, I'm averaging over the first dimension, which is channels. So this is something I discuss in more detail in the previous video on referencing. And here is the other butterfly plot, so with data instead of EEG, that data, and you can see that the way that I'm plotting this is really just taking the average of all the data over all of the trials. OK, so we can plot this. And now I think you see a little bit more why this is called a butterfly plot when it's an average reference. And that means that the average over all of these lines is necessarily zero. That's the definition of average reference. So when there is a lot of stuff happening in the brain and the EEG is changing a lot dynamically, then you see these kind of butterfly plots that are going out. So you see it gets wider. And when there's relatively little information happening in the brain, so when there's relatively little dynamics in the brain, then all the channels are closer to zero, which means they're closer to each other. So these don't look hugely different, of course, no surprise that your reference and the average reference, but you can see the average reference, they're all fluctuating around zero and here you can have a non-zero values over the entire scalp with a non average reference. So this is one way to look at the data and what if we wanted to quantify this, basically when you look at this, what your brain is doing is saying, you know, that's more energetic here and less energetic here and more energetic here and so on. So wouldn't it be nice to be able to represent the information that's contained in these 64 lines using one single line? And that is the idea of the variance time series. And as I mentioned in the beginning of the video, that's related to something called the root mean square time series because root, mean square and variance are two very closely related topics, something I discuss in more detail in my signal processing course. But that part doesn't matter. The point is, what we are doing now is computing the variance over all the channels of the ERP. So here I compute the ERP. So the average over all the trials, the average over all the trials for the original ear lobe reference and for the average reference. And then I can compute the variance and I'm not adding any additional dimension inputs into the VA function. So that means it's going to apply the default parameter, which is the dimension one and dimension one here is channels. So computing the variance over channels. And I'm competing this for the ear lobe reference data and the average reference data, and I would like you to think about how you expect these two functions, these two time series to differ, basically looking at the variance, this signal at each time point over the channels versus the variance of this signal. OK, so here we go. Here you see the two lines and they are exactly identical. Now, if you're familiar with the formula for variance, then this will not be a surprise at all. And that's because the formula for for variance. So to compute the variance, the first step. Is to subtract the mean from each of the time points, so you mean center the data now in this case you're subtracting the mean. Which you can see there's a non-zero means, you subtracting something now here. What did we do to create this valuable data? We actually subtracted the mean already. So this is already mean centered. So in the variance function, you're actually just subtracting zero. And that's why these two results are identical. Now, that's slightly different from the root mean square. The root mean square actually does not involve centering the data around its meaning. So if I were also to compare, if you were also to compute the root mean square, which you can do, it's not so much work, you would find that the root mean square is different for average reference versus your low preference. Anyway, that's not the key Take-Home message from this video. The key Take-Home message from this video is showing two different ways. So butterfly plots and variance plots of illustrating and quantifying the total amount of energy that takes place over different spatial regions of the scalp. In the next video, I'm going to start talking more about topographies and plotting the topography. So we will be able to visualize to get a better understanding of what's happening at these time points versus what's happening at these time points.