 The goal of this project is to generate topographical maps that look like this. Now, these are not topographical maps that show voltage or any other measure of activity. Instead, these are topographical maps that show peak time latency. So what you want to do is go through, create an ERP for every channel, and then you want to search for the maximum voltage value in the gap between one hundred and four hundred milliseconds. Now I've done this signed, which means that you're not looking for the largest deflection, whether it's positive or negative. If you're looking for the largest positive value in the window of one hundred to 400 milliseconds when you've identified that value. You don't actually care about the voltage value itself. What you care about for this project is the latency. So the time at which that maximum occurs. And then you want to store these peak times as a separate variable, as a vector, and then make this topographical map of the peak times. So that's what this map is showing with this color range. And then you want to repeat this for the ERP. So you want to low pass, filter the ERP and then repeat the same analysis and you'll get a result that looks like this if you want to reproduce my results. Exactly. You can use a low pass filter of 15 hertz. And in this case, I used a windowed sink function. Now, once you've done that, that's kind of the basic part of the project. There's two other things to consider. One is you can try to figure out how I got this title to have two lines here, because normally when you use the title function, every text, all the text that you put into the title function appears on one line. And here I managed to get into two lines so you can try and figure out how I did that. And secondly, and more importantly, try to figure out why there are differences between the non filtered ERP and the filtered ERP. So you can see most of these topographical maps are really similar, maybe not totally identical, but really similar for these two maps, except in this region here, this front or central region. And that's where you see a lot of differences. So based on the data, based on your analysis, see if you can figure out what is explaining this difference in here. OK, good luck. I hope you enjoy working through this project. And in the next video, I will show you my solutions.