 I've already discussed this in a previous video on generating the Topography Time series, or maybe it was in Project one where you saw this anyway. Then here I make a topographical map of those peak times. So here you can see some overwriting the variable here, which you may or may not want to do, but that converts it from indices into milliseconds. So topographical map. And then basically here is how you get the title. So let me see. I'll just run this whole first. So here's how you get the title to span multiple lines. Instead of just inputting a string into the title function, you input a cell array. So you can see this is a cell array. I have it in curly brackets. This is the first element in the Celera and this is the second element in this cell array. This is longer and it's kind of this mixed concatenated format. And that's just because I wanted to get these time boundaries in here as well. OK, so this is for the unfiltered ERP, I guess maybe I should say I could add this, make this a little bit more informative, unfiltered BRP and now repeating for the filtered ERP is almost exactly the same, except that you need to filter the ERP. So as I mentioned, I used a windowed sink filter with a cutoff at 15 hertz. Now normally I would recommend carefully inspecting this filter, Colonel, in the time domain and in the frequency domain. However, this is exactly the code that I've used in the previous videos, in the previous project, in Project one. So I already know that this is a good filter. OK, and then I filter here, so I'm filtering each channel separately. Now notice that I'm filtering the entire ERP. So all of the time points. I'm not only applying the filter to this small time window of one hundred to four hundred milliseconds. The reason for that is that any time you filter out, you're going to get edge effects and you want the edge effects to be well outside the time window that you care about the time window that you are interested in. So filter first and then you can rerun this line of code. OK, and then compute the indices into time points in milliseconds and then make a topographical map of that. So not so bad. Now the question is, why do these results differ in this kind of frontal central area? Now, of course, the topography doesn't matter. What matters is that there are some channels that differ and some channels that are the same. So I would like to look at these areas. That's the way that I'm going to figure out why these two differ. So let's pick channel forty seven, for example. That seems to be a channel that's really different between these two analyses. So I'm going to create a new figure at times and I'm going to plot the unfiltered ERP from that channel. So that's the average of the data. This was Channel forty seven all the time. Points of trials averaged over the third dimension. And here is that ERP here and now. What I want to do is plot on top of this, the filtered version of the ERP. Now you could say, you know, hold on and then on a separate line type plot, but I'm going to do it in a slightly different way. So I'm going to say multiple input. Into multiple pairs of X Y inputs, into the plot function. So this was X and Y and I'm going to do again big times, comma. And now this is the ERP from Channel forty seven. Now, notice that this is all on one line of code I don't need to type. Hold on. OK, now I'm going to set the ceiling the X lim from time. So time boundaries. And now we can inspect these to the filtered in red and the unfiltered in blue. So let's think about what we're doing here. We are looking for the maximum value. We're looking for the peak in this window. So it's clear that the peak happens here, this blue point for the unfiltered peak. But for the filtered IRP, this is actually a smaller peak compared to this. So this later peak ended up being slightly higher than this earlier peak. And in fact, I'll make that even more obvious. Let me see. So I'll set the Y limit to go from, let's say, four to seven. Just to make sure this is more clear, so here in the unfiltered ERP, this is the peak here in the filtered ERP. Actually, this is the maximum this is still a local maximum, of course, but the global maximum within this time window is actually this later peak here. And that is why there is a difference between this plot and this plot for these other channels. I encourage you to, you know, run the same code and inspect some other channels. You'll see that for these other channels, this is not net like fifty nine, for example. You'll see that the filtered and unfiltered versions don't differ as much as they do here. Now, again, if you're doing this analysis for real, this is a pretty awkward feature. I don't think this is a good feature. This is not something you want. You don't want that. Your analysis result depends so wildly on something like a filter characteristic. So therefore, I think a better approach would be let me go back and plot this. I think a better approach would be to pick a narrower window. So maybe a better window would be something like instead of 100 to 400 milliseconds, maybe, you know, one hundred to two hundred and fifty milliseconds or three hundred milliseconds, maybe that's a more appropriate window that would give you a result that is more robust to filter characteristics and other analysis parameters. I think you will also find if you plot these actually, let me do this as well. So let's look at Channel 19 now. So 19 for the IRP and 19 for the unfiltered data. Now, this is interesting, so this has a really early peek here and then another peak and another peak. So now I'm going to set this time boundary here and actually this looks more robust to the filter. Anyway, I hope you enjoyed working on this project. See you in the next section.