This course is all about neural time, series analysis, and so I want to take a few minutes to explain a little bit about what neural time series analysis means. Now, obviously, you can unpack the title. It's something about analyzing time series. Data that come from neurons or neurons are brain cells, but it's worth getting into a little bit more detail to give you an overview of where these kinds of neural time series data come from and what are some of the main challenges involved in TIME series analysis now? A pretty big slice of the field of neuroscience, including some of the research that we do in my research lab, is called Cognitive Electrophysiology. And this basically means trying to understand something about the mind, something about how cognition works by studying the brain and not just any part of the brain, in particular studying the electrical activity of the brain. So why is it useful to study electrical activity and where does all this electricity even come from? So here you see a stylised image of a neuron or a single brain cell. This would be the neuron. This is called the Soma or the cell body. And these are called dendrites, these black ramifications here. So and then this line here would correspond to the skull. So this is inside the head and then this is outside the head. Now, neurons process information and transmit information to other brain cells using electrochemical signals. So this means that charged ions are constantly flowing into and out of these neurons. And so an interesting feature of these kinds of neurons, in particular these so-called pyramidal cells are called pyramidal cells because they're so much shaped a little bit like a pyramid, but they have this kind of elongated structure. And so a lot of inputs are coming into the cell up here and the outputs are leaving the cell here. So as positively charged ions are flowing into the neuron, then the extracellular fluid or the fluid in between neurons becomes relatively negatively charged. And at the same time, positively charged ions are flowing out of the neuron down here, which means that the extracellular fluid becomes relatively negatively charged. So you can see there's this spatial asymmetry of the voltage potential in this neuron. So because of this and because of the shape of this neuron, this neuron is actually acting a little bit like a wire, a bit like a copper wire with electricity running through it. So that means that you get these electrical fields that are generated around the neuron that looks something like this. That's like wings of a butterfly. Now, if you had a small electrode, a micro wire, so like a little antenna that was placed very close to this neuron, you could actually record you could measure the change in the voltage potential corresponding to the activity of this one individual cell. Now, the voltage potential, the field potential from one single neuron is way too weak to be measured from outside the brain. You would really need to have a very small wire placed very close to this neuron. However, it turns out that in the brain, in the cortex, you have lots and lots of these pyramidal cells that are aligned in a geometrically parallel organization. And that means that the electrical field from a single neuron is really weak. It's very small, it's hard to measure. But when you have lots and lots and lots, like thousands or sometimes even millions of these cells that are all active synchronously. So at the same time and in the same pattern, then their electrical fields some and get large enough and powerful enough to pass through brain tissue, pass through the skull and skin and be measured by an electrode that's placed outside the head. And that is what EEG is measuring. It's the voltage potentials generated by large populations of pyramidal cells that are all firing synchronously. So here's what EEG looks like in a real person. So EEG stands for electroencephalography. These electrodes are all just sitting on top of the skin. So it's a perfectly safe and perfectly painless procedure. And possibly you've had an EEG yourself or maybe someone you know has had an EEG as part of a research study or maybe for a clinical evaluation. Now, the signal that you get from each one of these electrodes, each one of these white casings here is an individual electrode. You can see there's many, many of them. The signal from each electrode is a voltage potential fluctuation over time. And it looks something like this. So this would be a depiction of the voltage fluctuations for 10 different channels. So obviously, there's a lot more here. This looks like 128 channels. And it's pretty interesting to think about what this means. So these are direct reflections of populations of brain cells that are fluctuating in and out. Of phases of excitability inside the brain, and we can measure those fluctuations from outside the head, so you can already see several important features of each year, more generally electrophysiological neural signals. For example, you see that there are these rhythmic patterns that go up and down in amplitude. So here it's the same rhythm as here, the same speed, but it's a lower amplitude. Here it's a higher amplitude. So we want to be able to quantify that here. It looks like the rhythm completely disappears for a brief period of time. Some channels show this rhythm stronger. Some channels don't really show this rhythm. Some channels have faster rhythms, maybe some of this noise mixed in with the signal. And these are the kinds of features that we want to extract from the signal. Furthermore, you can see that these signals are not all the same and all the different channels. It's not surprising different parts of the brain are doing different things. So this feature here, this is actually called Alpha, the rhythm at around 10 hertz or 10 cycles per second. So this alpha rhythm is really prominent at this electrode, a bit less prominent that these electrodes and it looks like it's completely absent at these electrodes or at least too small to be seen by eye. So there's not only dynamics happening over time, there's also interesting distributions of activity that are happening over space. And this leads me to the second feature of electrophysiology data that we are often interested in, which is the spatial dimension. So this slide kind of illustrates the dichotomy that in general, in neural time series data, we are interested in extracting features out of the temporal dimension, the time dimension and also extracting features out of the spatial dimension. Now, there's a lot more going on in this slide, and I'm going to talk about this slide in more detail in the next video. I'm just putting it in here so you get a distinction between temporal filtering, which is the mechanism of extracting time based information from neural signals and spatial filtering, which is the mechanism of extracting space based features out of signals. These are some of the main analyses that you would use for looking at information in time versus information in space. So you have time domain analysis such as event related potentials, spectral analysis, using the four transform, for example, and time frequency analysis using various methods, typically wavelet convolution for spatial filtering. We're interested in how information flows over space. So here you apply measures like or analyses like synchronization or graph theory or various kinds of components. Analysis, perhaps you've already heard of PCA or ICRA. As you might imagine, neuroscience is a huge field, but I hope this few minutes of slides gives you a bit of a feel for what electrophysiology data look like, what neural time series data look like, and the kind of two families of analyses that people are often interested in applying the time, domain and space domain analyses.