 In this video, I want to say a few words about what you can expect from this course, in part that's going to be me explaining what I think your goals should be for joining this course. And I'll tell you a little bit about why I created this course. And I'll give you a few tips to maximize your performance, your success in this course. And essentially, you know, that can basically be all boiled down to doing a lot of visualization because you want to be able to see all of the analyses and all the data as much as possible. So why are you here now? I don't mean this in some big existential sense, like why does the universe exist? Why is there life? Why are we conscious? What is the meaning of life? I mean, this in a little bit more of like a, you know, kind of local practical sense of why are you sitting in front of your computer taking this course? I guess that you are sitting in front of your computer, looking at your screen and it looks something like this. And this is a terrifying, intimidating, frightening screen because you don't even know where to start and instead you would like your screen to look something like this. So how do you get from a screen that looks like this to a screen that looks like this? Well, obviously, you know, you do a lot of typing, but it's also some hard work, some effort, some dedication and some learning with the right resources. And I think that's why you came here, because you hope to be able to turn something like this into something like this, a nice publication in a respectable journal. And this is not just about getting points so you can succeed in your career. This is about contributing to science, contributing to the expansion of human knowledge by communicating what you have discovered about the brain or whatever system you are studying to the rest of the community. OK, so why did I create this course? I created this course because I come from this big idea that scientists should know how to analyze their data. Now, that sounds like a very nice thing to say, but what does that mean exactly? It's a little bit of an ambiguous sentence. What does it mean to know how to analyze your data? Does it mean that you have to program all of your data analysis from scratch? Totally from the ground up? Does it mean that you have to understand all of the math underlying every single analysis that you apply and every single parameter that you select? Maybe it means that you're not allowed to use graphical user interfaces where you can point and click and you have to write all of the code yourself without any help from pressing buttons, maybe knowing how to analyze your data. It means that you have to do everything totally independently. You can't get any help. You can't get any feedback or assistance or collaborations. Well, these are all pretty strong statements. Maybe we can just interpret this to say that what you should have is a conceptual understanding of all the analyses that you apply to your data. So everything that happens to your data from gathering the raw data to producing figures, you should have a conceptual understanding of all of those mechanics. And I would say that these four items, these are all noble goals to work towards. These are all things, particularly in this course. And when you are learning analysis methods, these are all items. These are all concepts that you should be working towards. However, in practice, you don't need to program everything from scratch. You don't need to know every stupid little mathematical equation. Writing your own code is great because it increases your flexibility. But there is nothing wrong with using graphical user interfaces. And obviously doing everything completely independently is not necessarily a good strategy for modern science. Collaborations and help are great things. So in practice, when learning, you should strive towards these four goals and when you're actually applying your learned knowledge, then as long as you have a good conceptual understanding of all the analyses and the parameters, then that is great. Now let me say a few words about what you will get from this course. What I think you should get from this course, you will get a basic understanding of time frequency analyses. You will understand the math and the reasoning behind all the analyses. You will see the Matlab implementations. This will allow you to improve your coding skills and. Well, OK, so this one, when I teach in person, then I tend to tell a few stupid jokes every couple of minutes or so. But when I teach online, I tend not to tell so many jokes. But if you listen carefully. You might detect one or two jokes here and there scattered throughout the course. And trust me, a few jokes here and there is a lifetime supply. But in all seriousness, I want to stress this concept of a basic understanding of time frequency analysis, because what you won't get from this course is a complete, full, total understanding of time frequency analyses that will make you equal to the world expert on time frequency analysis, which is not me, by the way, not by a long stretch time frequency analysis and spectral analyses. These are huge world with many, many, many analyses. And it takes a lot more than going through one course or one textbook to become a real expert at data analysis. Of course, if your goal is to have a really solid understanding of data analysis, spectral and dynamic data analysis, and you want to become an expert at data analysis, then of course, I think that this class is a great way to start. What I am not going to show you in this course is how to press buttons and lab or call lines of code from field trip or press buttons and spin or brainstorm or brain vision analyzer. There are many, many analysis toolboxes out there that allow you to implement a lot of analysis by pressing buttons or by running lines of code that you can download from a tutorial. And to be clear, I have nothing against toolboxes. They are great. They're very powerful. I will, in fact be using a couple of functions that are derived from the EEG lab toolbox. So in practice, when you are actually sitting down to analyze data, of course, it's totally fine to use toolboxes. They are great, they're powerful, they're very helpful. But I believe that when you are learning how to do data analyses, it's important to avoid using toolboxes as much as possible because you want to focus on understanding the mechanisms, the mechanics and all the implementation details which are hidden in these toolboxes. OK, and the final thing is that I'm not going to give you a really basic level programming instruction in this course. So if you have no experience whatsoever with Matlab, then you should pause the course here, go take an introduction to Matlab course and then come back and continue this course. That said, you certainly don't need to be a Matlab expert if you are comfortable working with variables, working with functions, working with command structures like if then statements and for loops. And if you are comfortable with basic plotting, then you will be fine. You definitely don't need to be an expert matlab coder, but you do need to have a little bit of beginner experience. So how to maximize your learning in this course, how to get the most out of this course? First of all, I encourage you to ask questions, feel free to ask questions. You can post them here and you can also post them on my discussion forum that's discussed that Sync Express dot com. There is no aspect of learning that is a spectator sport here. So if you really want to learn, you have to take notes during the lecture and you have to do the Matlab exercises. And I give a lot of assignments here and I show all the solutions and you definitely should do as many of these exercises and homework problems as possible. The good news is that you have lifetime access to this course so you can always do the exercises and come back and do more exercises and come back to the course whenever you have time. So here I say get enough sleep. This is true in general. In life. This is mostly a statement about when I teach this course as an intensive, week long instruction. Still, unfortunately, the science is very convincing that sleep is really, really important for learning and for mental health and physical health. I say that's unfortunate because I considered sleep to be mostly a waste of time. But but we need it. It's important. OK, and then the final point here is to embrace the learning experience. Learning a new technique can be rewarding, but it can also be frustrating and difficult. So you just have to embrace it and accept that in the end it's going to be good. You will learn a lot and you will feel good about yourself, but it's not always super happy and super fun while you are learning a new and difficult topic. So this online course that you are watching now actually comes from a week long course that I teach in the summer. And so this is like the bird's eye view of your life. If you are taking this course as an. A week long course and I leave this slide in here because I want to show you the bird's eye view of the big picture overview of what this entire course looks like. So the first day is about in basic introduction. That's where I explain a lot of things. I introduced a lot of concepts and we talk about simulating data and then, well, OK, so at night you study and sleep. And then Tuesday, which is for this online course, is the second major section of the course that's all about the Fourier transform, which is an important spectral decomposition method. And then Wednesday is all about wavelets and time frequency analysis. So this I often refer to as a static spectral analysis. And this is a dynamic spectral analysis. This allows you to look at how the frequency content of a signal is changing over time. So this is the third major section of this course. The fourth major section of this course is about phase and connectivity, synchronization analysis. So what does it mean for two different, let's say, two different brain regions to coupled together? And then the final major section of this course is all about inferential statistics, which is basically about assigning confidence, values, p values and confidence intervals to all of the analyses that you were learning about in the other. So the earlier parts of the course and then, you know, when you're here, we're together on Friday, then we have a party at the end. So I don't really have like a digital party at the end of this online course. But you should treat yourself to a beer or a glass of wine or however you like to reward yourself when you're finished with this course. So I am really excited to film the rest of this course and put this thing together for you. I hope you are really excited to continue learning and enjoy the rest of the course.