 Before getting started, I want to tell you a little bit about how I created this course, this course actually started off being an advanced level course that was not really appropriate for beginners to neural signal processing. And then I started making a totally separate course that was specifically made for beginners. So then it was going to be two separate courses, one course for beginners and also intermediate level and one course for more advanced level students. But then when finishing up the beginners level course, I had a change of heart. I changed my mind. Instead of having two separate courses, I wanted to make one full, complete, total course that would get you from beginner through intermediate level, through advanced level programming and data analysis with neural time series data. But on the other hand, I didn't want to create the entire course from scratch when I already had all the good raw material, so instead I just decided to continue to combine the two courses by mixing the videos in an order that seems pretty sensible to me. So as you're going through this course, please keep in mind that I created this course on two separate sessions that were separated by a year. And in that year some of my recording equipment changed. There's also a little bit of repetition in the sense that some of the concepts and the MATLAB exercises that I go through in the intro level course overlap conceptually and sometimes a little more with what is already in the advanced level course. So now it's really just one combined course. Now, the reason why I'm telling you this is so that you're not surprised when you see that some of the audio visual quality is a little bit different between the different videos and the different sections of the course, and also to explain why there is a bit of repetition across the different videos. But, you know, repetition is actually a really good thing. And learning it's something that all good teachers do. So I think this is actually a positive feature of the course anyway. That's it for now. Basically, the course took me around 14 months of work and there was like a big gap in the middle where I was working on the more complete beginners level course. So keep watching. I hope you enjoy the rest of the course.