In this video, I'm going to talk more about volume conduction first, I will describe what are the

predicted patterns of results if your synchronization is actually determined by a volume conduction

artifact.

And then I will describe a couple of different analysis approaches.

I think there might be 10 of them that will minimize the possibility or prevent volume conduction artifacts

from happening.

Some of these are preventative measures and some of these are post hoc measures that you can inspect

your data to see if volume connection might be accounting for your connectivity results.

OK, but let's start with the predicted patterns.

So here's the thing.

If you compute synchronization between two electrodes and your synchronization is actually due to volume

conduction, not true synchronization between spatially distinct neural populations, but instead your

results are attributable to a single source in the brain that is simultaneously projecting to both electrodes.

Then you can expect that the following four patterns of results will occur.

First, we will you will expect to see zero or PI phase lag and a zero or five phase lag because volume

conduction is instantaneous.

Volume conduction is instantaneous because electrical fields travels through the brain and through the

skull and through skin and so forth, basically instantaneously.

It is, in fact slightly more complicated than that because it's not totally instantaneous like that.

You know, the electrons are moving at the speed of light, of course, but the distance that they traveled

through is different.

And it depends a bit on the medium, it depends on the frequency and so on.

But even if there are tiny, tiny delays between the electrical potential getting to this electrode

and the potential getting to this electrode, that is a totally theoretical concept because those delays

are much, much, much smaller than what we measure with our recording system.

So for all intents and purposes, volume connection is instantaneous.

The electrical activity from this source reaches all electrodes at exactly the same time.

So therefore the synchronization will be zero phase lag or can be PI phase lag.

If like this electrode in this electrode are on the opposite sides of the dipole, that's not totally

clear.

I'm going to explain it in a bit more detail in a later video.

But anyway, the point is, if your synchronization is spurious because of volume conduction, you can

expect the phase synchronization to be at zero or PI phase lag.

Another prediction from the volume conduction artifact is that you get decreasing synchronization strength

with increasing distance.

So, for example, if you would compute synchronization between this electrode and all other electrodes.

So by very synchronization between this guy and this guy, this guy and this guy, this guy and this

guy, this guy and every other possible pair of electrodes related to this one electrode, and then

he made a topographical map of the synchronization strength.

It would look something like this.

The synchronization strength gets weaker the further away you get from the seed electrode and you will

see examples of this later on in this section.

Another thing you can expect is all positive correlation.

So for the same reason that you have the zero or PI phase like synchronization, you would expect that

if the synchronization between these two electrodes is actually reflecting the same source, then of

course these guys would be positively correlated with each other.

These two electrodes are not going to have a negative synchronization value if they are measuring the

same thing.

Now, it can get a little bit tricky to make this claim because if you're on two different sides of

the dipole, then the ions are basically flowing into the neurons over here or flowing out of the neurons

over here.

So the correlation is still going to be very strong, but negative in the time domain.

But the thing is, in the frequency domain and in the time frequency domain, you're never going to

see negative correlations.

For example, with time, frequency, power, you will never see negative correlations for volume connected

signals.

OK, and then the final pattern of results that you can expect if your synchronization results are spurious

and due to volume connection, is that the synchronization, for example, phase synchronization and

power at the same frequency will look basically the same.

So, in fact, this is an example where we can confirm we can look at the data and confirm that this

synchronization result between two electrodes is actually not due to volume connection.

This is true synchronization.

And that is because for the same reason that I mentioned here and here, if two electrodes are synchronized

because of artefact from volume conduction, then the powers at these two electrodes will also look

really similar to each other and they will look like the synchronization between them.

So you would expect that the power and the synchronization overall look really similar, certainly at

the same frequency.

If you have a volume connection, artifact.

OK, so these are some of the things you can expect, some of the patterns you can expect in your results,

if you are synchronization is actually due to an artifact of volume connection.

So now I'd like to discuss what are some strategies that you can use to mitigate the volume conduction

artifacts.

It looks like, OK, I'm slightly embarrassed about this, but there are, in fact, 10 here, this

goes one through five and this goes five through nine.

So my apologies for the, uh, apparently I'm not very good at counting.

Next time I'm going to use Matlab to do the counting instead of my own brain anyway.

So so these are some different strategies you can use to mitigate volume, connection artifacts.

If I'm going to just walk through all of these very quickly, if some of these are not clear, I'm going

to talk about, uh, I think almost all of these in the rest of this section and possibly in the next

section.

So one thing you can do is apply a spatial filter that will attenuate volume conduction artifacts before

you even do your conductivity analyses.

I am going to talk about the lipless in as a spatial filter for synchronization analysis in this section

of the course.

And let's see this one generalized organic composition.

I talk about more in a different course on dimension reduction and source separation.

So there are many special filters that are at least several different special filters that you can use

to try to account for and overcome the possibility of a volume connection artifact.

And here I'm going to be talking about the LA Plaza, OK?

Another possibility is look for negative correlations and Power Times series.

You can look for temporal lags and test to see whether the temporal legs are different from Zero or

PAE, which is similar to number six.

Except this is more about using inferential statistics and this is more about designing your tests to

look for temporal lags in the data.

You can focus on condition differences because, for example, if the time frequency power between two

electrodes is similar between two conditions, but the synchronization is different between the conditions,

then the synchronization cannot be attributed to power.

And power would also be could also be due to volume conduction.

You can also examine cross frequency interactions across frequency coupling.

You can test for a dissociation of power and synchronization.

So that's also related to number four.

And I also mentioned this in the previous slide.

You can statistically test the phase, like to see if it is significantly different from zero or PI.

You can use phase lag based measures instead of phase clustering based synchronization measures.

I will talk quite a bit about phase lag versus phase clustering measures later on in this section.

You can compute a partial correlation.

So this would be appropriate for Power Time series.

Essentially, you are parceling out the variance due to a third electrode when you are measuring the

correlations between two electrodes.

And the idea is that volume connection will also be shared with that third electrode.

And by partially out those correlations, you will remove the volume connection component of the signal

of the correlations.

And another strategy is that there are methods to remove the real part of the TIME series, and that

basically allows you to focus on the imaginary part of the TIME series, which cannot be attributed

to volume connection.

This is for the same reason that you would look for temporal legs or face based measures.

Again, I will talk more about this issue of phase lag and zero versus R zero or PI phase log reflecting

volume connection in a later video in this course.

All right.

So I hope you're not too dissuaded after the previous video and this video about doing connectivity

analysis or synchronization analyses, synchronization analyses of of each year electrophysiology data

can be really powerful and really insightful.

They're not really hard to do per say.

But you do have to keep more things in mind, as I've discussed in this and the previous video.

So that's why I wanted to open this section of the course with a little bit of a warning that interpreting

synchronization results is a little bit trickier than interpreting other kinds of analyses that you

are applying to your electrophysiology data, like spectral analysis and time, frequency, power and

face clustering and so on.

Anyway, so with all of this out of the way, let's move to the next video where I'm going to start

introducing you to intuition and then the math behind phase synchronization.