In this video, I'm going to build a little bit of intuition about face synchronization, and I will

also introduce something about the neuroscience theory that motivates the use of face synchronization

as a measure of brain connectivity.

But let me actually begin by talking about terminology.

Unfortunately, there are many names in the literature that are used for the same underlying concept.

So the concept is that we are looking at a clustering of phase angle differences between two different

electrodes.

And you will see various terms in the literature, in the publication literature that all refer to exactly

the same procedure, exactly the same formula.

Now I find this unfortunate and confusing, but that is just how it is.

This is also not an exhaustive list.

You will also see other terms in literature that are still used for the same operation, the same thing.

I'm going to be calling it int. phase clustering, because that is the closest term that I can find

to the actual analysis that is being implemented and in my opinion terminology, so that names that

we give for analyses should be as close as possible to the mathematical operation that we are applying

and should not be confused with the biological or psychological or scientific inferences that we would

like to use that measure to make about brain function.

OK, anyway, so with that in mind, let me now switch to a little bit of brain theory.

So what this diagram is depicting is an action potential and in particular the membrane potential of

a of an individual neuron.

So if you would measure the membrane voltage potential from the membrane of the neuron relative to the

extracellular fluid somewhere else, you would find that it has a resting negative threshold like this.

And then as the neuron is being bombarded by excitatory inputs and inhibitory inputs, eventually the

level of electrical excitation, the electrical activity inside the cell and the dendrites and the somatic

region will exceed some threshold.

So the excitation increases and that will elicit this cascade of electrical and chemical events that

is called an action potential.

So there's a strong depolarization and then you get a polarisation.

And there's this hyperpolarization period here.

And this is all very fast.

This is really just a couple of milliseconds here.

This action potential now in this diagram, it looks like the membrane is totally flat before the action

potential.

However, this is just a simplification and this is only showing like two milliseconds here.

That's just two milliseconds.

If you would do a recording like this from an actual neuron and you would record for longer periods

of time, you would look back longer.

In time, you would see that the membrane potential is actually not flat.

It's fluctuating up and down.

It is getting deep polarized and hyperpolarized, but not to the level of an action potential until

there is an actual action potential.

So here you see some examples of real data.

So these are the membrane potentials from real neurons.

And you can see that over time, this timescale is seconds.

So this is huge compared to this time scale of milliseconds.

So you can see over time the membrane potential is increasing.

So the neuron is relatively depolarize, it's decreasing, the neuron becomes relatively hyperpolarized

and so on here.

This spike here, these spikes, these are action potentials.

So this one spike, which is like one pixel here on the screen, this is all of this business but zoomed

out to a much longer time scale.

So what you see is that neurons change in their dynamics between being depolarize when an exponential

is more likely because they are closer to a threshold and being hyperpolarized when an action potential

is less likely because the membrane potential is somewhere all the way down here.

So it's harder for the neuron to get up to the threshold.

So here you see two different neurons from the same recording and here you see the LFG.

So you see that these membrane potential fluctuations that are consistent across a population of neurons

is also reflected in the LSP.

So you see that when the membrane potential goes down, the loop goes up.

Now, the phase, the loop, if you are measuring really close to the neurons, is going to be opposite

because this is reflecting the intracellular potential and this is reflecting the extracellular potential.

So as ions are flowing into the neuron, they're necessarily coming from somewhere.

So they're coming from the extracellular fluid, which is where the LSP is coming from.

Now, the exact phase of the LSP is actually difficult to interpret for a variety of reasons.

And that's because if you're measuring the LSP from the other side of the dipole of these neurons,

if.

These neurons are oriented in such a way that they're forming a dipole, the LSP on one side of the

dipole would go up when these go down and the LSP on the other side of the dipole would go down when

these guys go down.

OK, now these recordings here are taken from deep sleep.

Now, it's not always the case that you see such stark differences between these were called upstate's

and down states.

This sharp distinction between upstate and downstate is generally what you see during deep sleep and

anesthesia and other conditions like that, where your brain isn't really conscious and actively doing

something during the awake state.

It's a lot more complicated.

You see a lot more fluctuations.

But still, the point is when your brain is active, these neurons do not have a flat resting membrane

potential.

They have a membrane potential that is going up and down and it's alternating between periods of depolarization

when action potentials are more likely and hyperpolarization when action potentials are less likely

to occur.

Now, this phenomenon is well known for a long time, and it inspired theories going back into the 19th

century.

Since the late night, the late eighteen hundreds scientists have hypothesized that these fluctuations

in the electrical activity of neurons and populations of neurons are related to the mechanism of communicating

or signaling information across different neural populations.

So here you see an example of one of these theories that has developed from, you know, almost 150

years now of neuroscience thinking.

And so the idea is that so these circles represent populations of cells, not necessarily an individual

cell.

So if you have two populations of cells that are oscillating in synchrony like this with the same phase,

then when they have action potentials, those are easy to transmit across these two different populations

of cells.

So this facilitates this synchronization in phase synchronization, facilitates the exchange of information

like this, because these action potentials here, when they are transmitted to the neurons in this

population, then these neurons are already in their depolarize state.

So they're more likely to elicit an action potential.

Now, this population, in contrast, is synchronous with antifreeze.

So if two populations of neurons are either antifa synchronous or if they are just not synchronized

at all, then action potentials from this population will impinge on these neurons.

But it will be to no avail.

Nothing will happen because these neurons are in their hyperpolarized state.

And when the neuron is in a hyper hyperpolarized state, it's just less likely to emit an action potential

because you're the neuron is much further away from its membrane threshold to create this action potential.

OK, so that's a very, very quick overview of the idea that motivates phase based synchronization.

So the idea is that you measure a population of cells and the electrical activity that you record is

strongly rhythmic.

It is has some rhythmic features or oscillatory features.

And that's, of course, the main motivation for doing spectral analysis in time frequency analysis.

And then the idea is you measure two populations of cells.

And here is the the key inference.

If the electrical activities from these two populations are synchronous, if their timing is consistent

like this, then we infer that these two populations of cells are functionally connected to each other.

They are transmitting information back and forth.

They're working together on the process.

The same information there is connectivity, functional connectivity between these two populations.

OK, so that's enough of brain theory.

What I want to do now is build a little bit of intuition for phase synchronization in general.

So one important thing to understand about phase synchronization is that we care about the timing,

not about the amplitude.

So in these two time series with these two signals, this window of time here reflects strong synchronization

because the two groups of cells or these two time series are going up and down together.

The phases are consistent between these two.

So when we are computing phase synchronization, we will be ignoring the amplitude value altogether

and only focusing on the phase angle time series.

And you'll learn about that in the next video.

When I talk about the formula for phase synchronization, so again, the idea is that the timing is

important, the amplitude is completely ignored.

And of course, you always have to keep in the back of your mind this relationship between amplitude

and phase that I discussed several times.

I discussed it first in the.

S. about four year transform and estimating face values and then I also talked about it in the section

on wavelike convolution and extracting fees.

So the idea there was that phase and amplitude are totally independent of each other, except when amplitude

is really, really small and phase is undefined or when amplitude is actually zero, then phase is just

not defined.

OK, so timing is important, not amplitude.

Another key point is that we are interested in the consistency of the phase difference, the phase differences

between two different electrodes, your time series and not the actual phase itself.

So for example, here you see phase synchronization and in this time window you also see strong phase

synchronization.

Now, this is a..

Phase synchronization.

They are going, you know, one goes up and the other one goes down.

So they're a. correlated.

That can be important.

That can be relevant.

Relative phase is interesting to interpret.

And in fact, there are entire measures of synchronization, alternative measures of synchronization

that are based on the relative phase, but for standard phase synchronization, for phase clustering

based measures.

What we are interested in is whether the phase difference is consistent over time between these two

time series, these two electrodes.

Again, you will see more about why that is and how that manifests in the equations for phase synchronization

in the next video.

All right.

And then the third point is that synchronization, particularly in the brain, is dynamic over time.

So you can have periods, time periods where there is no synchronization and then, you know, some

number of cycles later, a little bit of time later.

So here there's no synchronization.

And then the brain can suddenly go into a regime where there is synchronization.

So no synchronization followed by synchronization.

And in general, the mechanism of these time, varying changes in synchronization are subtle changes

in frequency.

So changes in frequency is one mechanism to change the timing of the phase values.

And you can also see that in this example.

So this blue line here is fluctuating slower than the green line and here then it kind of speeds up

a bit.

And here there are fluctuating at the same speed.

So Time series can go in and out of synchronization dynamically over time according to changes in frequency,

obviously, for the brain.

This is really important because changes in synchronization over time will reflect neural populations

that go in and out of communication.

All right.

So I hope that in this video you gain some intuition about phase synchronization and the idea of phase

synchronization.

And in the next video, I'm going to talk about the formula and how to actually quantify phase synchronization

and really awesome.

Spoiler alert.

You already know everything you need to know about how to compute phase synchronization.

You just need to see it in context and you will get that.

You already know the formula for this.