 Now that you've built some intuition for applying the surface, the plus into simulated data, let us switch to real data and explore a little bit in our sample EEG data set. So what we're going to do is look at topographical maps and ERPs before versus after applying the lipless in. So we start by identifying a time point that we are going to use for looking at the topographical maps and a channel for the. So let's see. So we load in the data, pick our parameters here, and then we convert the time point into an index and the channel also to an index. All right. Oops. And what is going on here? All right. OK, I wasn't in the right folder here. Now it should work. OK, if you ever get an error that says something like, uh, the data file is not found in the current folder or in the Matlab path, then probably the first thing you need to do is check that your path is correct and possibly change to a different folder where that file is located anyway. Here we want to compute the LA Plasty. And so I already introduced you to this function, La Plasty and Parent X in the previous video. So the way this works is we input the data so that data and then we want to input a vector of Chen Lokes X values. Now the reason why we need the square brackets here is for string concatenation. So because all of these X values for each channel come in a different structure, then they actually come out as separate answers. You can see it's the answer equals this, answer equals this and so on. What we need to do actually is convert this into a vector so we use these square brackets to concatenate into one vector. Now, in theory, you could also use curly brackets like this. However, that's going to convert it into a cell array. And we want here is a vector and not a cell array. OK, so then we just repeat and I think I will copy and paste. So we repeat for Y and Z. So the Z locations, the Y locations and the X locations. Now notice also what I'm doing here. I'm putting the lipless in data instead of overwriting the data very field in the structure, e.g. if I did this I would actually lose the original data. So instead I'm setting this to be a new field inside the structure called IEG Lap. And this is great because now we have the voltage data and the lipless the end data and they are separate. We will be able to compare them directly without having to worry about overwriting them. This is also going to become useful for later videos when we are going to compare different measures of connectivity, different synchronization indices on the voltage and on the lipless and data. All right. So now the thing is that the voltage data in the lab, plus the data are in different scales. So voltage is in myCar volts, plus is mycar volts per centimeter squared. So the two metrics are not directly comparable, just like you cannot directly compare Volts and Tesla's. So therefore what we need to do is normalize them so that they can be easily visualized on the same axis, on the same plot. So we are going to do that with a Z normalization. So what I'm doing first in these two lines, I am computing the average. So the ERP, the average over all the trials from the channel that we have specified up here. So see that in this case. And then so this is going to be a vector over time. And then what I want to do is Z transform this so I can use the function Z score VoLTE ERP and that will work. That will put this into a Z value and we can actually even check. So then the mean, the mean of VoLTE ERP is essentially zero plus some computer rounding error and the variance should be around one and the variance is exactly one. OK. Now unfortunately the function Z score is in the I think it's in the stats toolbox. So if you don't have this function Z score, it's really easy to do manually. And I will show you that here. So to compute a Z score manually, you write the data minus the mean divided by the standard deviation. That's the formula. So this is Lappe ERP minus mean Lappe ERP. Now notice that. Lapeer, here is a vector, and this the average now this is the average over time, so that's a single number. The average happens to be one point to six. And then so every element in this time series gets divided by the average and then we divide by the standard deviation, which of course is also just a single number. So therefore, if you don't have the stats toolbox with the Z score function, you can just write it out like this. No problem. All right. And now we can make a plot with both of these, the voltage data and the plasty and data. So let's start with some topographical maps. So what you see here are the topographies of the voltage map and the LA Plaza and map. And this is similar to what I showed a few slides ago when I showed the example of the data before and after applying the surface of the plussing. So what you see is that some of the features are similar between the two maps and some of the features are more prevalent in the legislation and less easily discernible in the voltage map. And again, as a reminder, all of the features in the LA Plaza and everything that's in this map is also in this map. But this map is dominated by low spatial frequency structure, which tends to have higher amplitude, and that low spatial frequency patterns are attenuated in this map. So that allows you to visualize and better quantify these more local changes in topographical features. All right. So then we can look at the ERP on the bottom. So that looks like this. And now these are normalized. It's Z squared. And this is funny. They both look exactly the same. What are the chances that the data at C Z, which is Elektro number forty eight here, what are the chances that those ERPs are exactly the same? I think the chance is basically zero. So I think something went wrong here. Either something went wrong with the plotting or. Yeah. Anyway, let's see what's going on. So we are plotting times by Volt ERP and then times by Volt ERP. OK, so clearly this is supposed to say Lappe ERP. Let's run that again. All right. Much better. So it's interesting to compare these two airports, what you see is that some of the features of the airport are similar between the voltage on the lipless in and some of the features are different. So this thing here looks really, really similar for the two time series. And here we see a bigger divergence between these two preparation's of the data. Now, the way that you interpret this difference here is that in the voltage data, this feature of the data is actually coming from some distant source. It's coming from somewhere else on the scalp or in the brain. And after applying the lipless in that far away, that distant contribution is minimized, it's attenuated, and this is reflecting more local activity from tissue that is underneath the electrode sized. All right, so let's look at this question down here, based on looking at the top of plotts pick, an election that you think will look either very different or very similar for voltage and lipless. And why do they. OK, so what we want to do is basically pick some RPS to look at from a channel based on the guess that from the way that these maps look, that the guess that the Iraqis will look really similar. Now, this is not so easy to do because these maps are only coming from a single time point. And if we had plotted topographical maps, for example, at five hundred and fifty milliseconds, I think that would look almost would look really, really similar between these two maps. But other features of the maps might look different. So it's a little bit difficult to tell. But I think at this time, point of two hundred and fifty milliseconds where these maps are coming from, it looks like this feature of the data here is pretty similar between the lipless and the voltage. So let's try electrodes 60, which is not name eight. So I'm going to change this to Pates here. Again, that's based on visualizing this map here at 250 milliseconds and seeing that the features, the main topographical features look pretty similar over there. So let's see then. I will rerun all of this code. And OK, quite interesting, so now the little plastic and the voltage look really, really similar, a little bit of a divergence here in here, but I think overall they certainly look more similar than the previous IRP at CES. Now, what does that mean? How do we interpret this when the TIME series data look really similar between the voltage map and the look policy and map like what you see here? The interpretation is that that electrode is the source of the topographical activity. And now I have to qualify that term source because when I say source in this context, I'm not referring to a brain source. There's a place it is not a brain localization method. We're not saying that there you know, this is where things are coming from in the brain. We are totally restricting ourselves to topographical level interpretations. But we can say that this feature of the data really does have its source, its topographical source at around electrode eight or eight somewhere around here. Now, that is different from let's pick another electrode that we think will differ more based on this one topographical map. I'm going to pick electrodes, CP five, that's this one here, which is electrode 17. You can see at this map they look quite different from each other. And, you know, I think I will also change the time to plot just to give us a little bit of variety, about three hundred and seventeen milliseconds. Just, you know, because why not? So now we want CEDP five. And then we're going to get actually we'll get new maps and new Time series, I think I'll put this in a new figure as well. So let's see, we need all of this and rerun all of this. And now you see so first of all, the maps look even more different than they did here at two hundred fifty milliseconds and these Time series look totally, totally different. It is remarkable that these are even from the same channel. You know, if I would show you these two time series, you wouldn't guess that these are from exactly the same electrode before and after a little bit of spatial filtering. So how do we interpret this difference? So the way that we interpret this difference is that the voltage data at SEPI five is not dominated by a source at SEIP five, a topographical source at KTP five. Instead, the activity that we measure here at Electrode CP five is dominated by distant sources, by long range sources that are coming from somewhere else, somewhere further away in the brain. And that's why when we apply this low pass spatial filter, the lipless in the data end up looking quite different. Even the peak is at a different time. Here you have an early peak and a later peak and the LA Plaza and shows a peak that's somewhere in the middle. All right. And then it's also interesting to see in this map at three hundred and seventeen milliseconds that now we get a different configuration and now it looks like the lipless in and the voltage overlap quite a bit at three. So here they look really, really similar to each other. And basically the rest of the map, they look really qualitatively different. I find this stuff really interesting to look at. So now, if you like, you know, there's a bit of a rabbit hole that you can go down here and just keep plotting different channels so you can now pick maybe I'll do one more and then I'll bring this video to a close. I'm curious to see now what the RPS look like at PS3. Now, I expect that at around 300 to 350 milliseconds, the two airports will look really, really similar to each other. But based on these topographical maps, I don't know if the earpiece will look similar to each other for the rest of the time window. All right, let's see. OK, well, these look really, really similar. OK, so this tells us that p o three, the voltage map is really coming from a source at close to three. And that's why it's preserved with the lipless in. And that's why it looks really, really similar to the IRP. So I hope you found this video interesting. I hope you found this enlightening. You are going to see several examples of applying the phase synchronization measures to voltage data and the plasty and data. You will see what a powerful and important processing technique these postin is for electrode level synchronization. Niles's. But first, I want to introduce you to phase lag index, which is a different way of measuring synchronization that is blind to volume connection. So I will see you in the next video.