Now I'm going to introduce you to phase lag based connectivity measures, so these are measures, connectivity

measures that are based on phases and phase clustering, a little bit similar to the phase synchronous

phase clustering methods that I introduce you to a few videos ago.

But these are based on phase lags.

And so first, I'm going to introduce the motivation for ignoring phase angle differences of zero radians

or PI radians.

And then I will introduce you to one of these specific methods for phase like based connectivity, and

that is called the Phase Log Index.

There are several methods that are all based on looking at phase lags and essentially they're all quite

similar.

I'm going to focus on the phase like index, mainly because it's the simplest, I think, of the of

this family of synchronization methods.

OK, so let's start.

So we already discussed volume conduction and the fact that volume conduction is instantaneous in time.

So that means when you measure so this the electrical fields generated by this population of cells here

contributes instantaneously in time to the activity measured from all of these electrodes.

So that means that if there is nothing else happening in the brain, only this one source, the synchronization

between these two electrodes is spurious.

It's not true synchronization.

It's it's just reflecting the fact that these two electrodes are measuring the same underlying source.

And the synchronization between these guys is instantaneous in time and instantaneous in time translates

to a phase lag of zero or PAE.

Now, remember, this is not about the phases themselves.

This is about the difference of the phase angle time series between this electrode and this electrode.

So it's sensible that if the phase angle time series is instantaneous and identical, then there are

differences obviously going to be zero.

So that explains why volume conduction would predict a phase lag of zero.

But how about PI?

How do we get pi?

Well, PI comes from the fact that we have electrical fields that form these dipoles and so there's

going to be a sink and a source, which means that the flow of ions is going to be positive in one direction

and negative in the other direction, even when it is instantaneous.

It's the same electrical field.

So it would be positive here and negative here or it would be negative here and positive here.

So therefore, these two electrodes would be synchronized with a phase lag of zero, whereas this electrode

and this electrode, assuming the dipole is, you know, sort of oriented like this, the electrical

fields are coming around like this.

So then these two electrodes are also instantaneously synchronized, but with a phase lag of minus PAE.

So with that idea in mind, people have developed phase lag based synchronization measures with the

idea, with the assumption that phase lags of zero or PI should be ignored because they can be true

synchronization or they can be spurious due to volume conduction.

So when we look at the complex plane, you see that a phase angle of zero and a phase angle of PI corresponds

to exactly the real axis.

So therefore we say that if there is synchronization that has a preferred phase angle that's basically

just lying along the real axis, positive or negative, then it can be true zero phase lag connectivity

or it can be a artifact of volume connection.

So let's imagine here we have these poller plots and imagine that these vectors are phase angle differences

between two electrodes.

So these are the differences in the phase angles between two electrodes, let's say, over time.

So here you can see these are clustered along the real axis.

Now, the thing is in the brain, there is true zero phase lag synchronization.

There's also a very short, low latency synchronization that is not zero.

But because of a little bit of noise and sampling variability, it can be difficult to distinguish from

zero.

So therefore, a situation like this or like this could be volume conduction or it could be true synchronization.

But we can contrast that with a situation like this where the distribution of phase angles is off the

real axis.

And now this cannot be artifacts will due to volume conduction.

This cannot be a volume conduction driven synchronization.

Instead, this must be a true interaction between the two electrodes or between the two neural populations

that those electrodes are measuring, and so basically this is the idea of phase lag indices phase like

kinds of synchronization measures.

We just play a little bit on the conservative side and we say we are allowing to risk the possibility

of missing some true connectivity in order to prevent from having the artifact of volume connection.

Now, that leads to some trade offs between sensitivity and robustness to volume connection.

And I'm going to talk more about that trade off in, I think, two or three videos.

For now.

It's going to be a question of when you should use phase lag measures versus phase clustering measures.

Anyway, I hope that by now you have an idea, you have a good intuition of why volume conduction would

predict a phase lag of zero or PI and why it's useful to why it can be useful to ignore synchronization

with these phase lags.

OK, now I'm going to show you the formula for the phase lag index.

Now, when you first look at this thing, when I first showed on the screen, it might look really intimidating

and like a really long, complicated formula, but it's actually pretty straightforward.

It's pretty intuitive.

I'm going to spend a minute now to walk you through this formula and you will see that it is fairly

straightforward.

Now, first of all, before talking about the entire formula, I would like to point out the similarity

between major features of this formula and the formula for interest sight phase clustering that you

already know from several videos ago.

So we have the phase angle differences between electrode GE and electrode K, so the phase angle difference

over time at each time point and that is put into Euler's formula and that gives us complex vectors.

So vectors in the complex plane that are unit vectors.

So amplitude of one and the phase angle of these vectors is defined by the difference of the phase angles

between electrode J and electrode K.

OK, so there's that part and then we average them together.

We divide by NP and we sum up all of these vectors.

So in fact, if you would take out these two parts here, we would still get exactly the same formula

that we saw a few years ago for phase clustering, including the the magnitude of the vector here,

this absolute value indicator here.

OK, so I hope you can see that part of the formula now before we average together.

There's two additional transformations.

The first transformation is that we're not dealing with these different vectors themselves or these

vectors with angles defined by the differences themselves.

Instead, we are projecting them onto the imaginary axis.

So that's what this symbol indicates.

We are taking these vectors and just considering their imaginary part, which is the projection onto

the imaginary axis.

So that is not this vector down here.

It's actually going to be just the imaginary component of that vector, which will be this dot.

So you can see that here we have all of these vectors here and then we take the imaginary part and that's

just projecting them all here.

So we get.

So so this part of the formula when we get here that converts these vectors into a collection of dots

that are all along the imaginary axis like this.

And then the next step is the Segan function, which is sine this stands for sine.

Now, this is not sine like a sinusoid, this is sine like S.A.G..

And so we're just looking at whether the projection of these Fais angled difference based vectors and

then their imaginary parts is net.

So whether the imaginary component of these vectors is negative or positive.

So in this particular example, all of these are the result of this part of the formula here.

This transform here is OK is going to be a bunch of minus ones, right?

Because every vector projects onto the imaginary axis negatively below the real axis.

This is the negative side of the imaginary axis.

So by this point in the formula, we have converted these phase angle differences to just a sequence

of minus one.

So there's like, you know, 20 of these vectors.

So there's 20 minus ones here.

And then we average all of those together.

Now, obviously, in this case, that's going to be minus one.

They're all minus ones.

The average is minus one.

And then we take the absolute value.

And that turns out to be one, of course.

So the play for this case, we don't even need to you know, we can just look at the formula and compute

the play.

Exactly based on visual inspection, which is going to be one.

So you can also see from these transformations in particular, this sign transformation that we don't

actually care about the total amount of clustering.

What we care about is whether these vectors on the whole are projecting to the same side of the imaginary

axis.

So these vectors could all be distributed all around here.

The PLI would still be one as long as every vector is pointing down.

Now, the Peli would also be one of all the vectors are pointing up.

However, if half of these vectors were pointing up, so pointing above the real axis, they would project

positively onto the imaginary axis.

And if half of the vectors were pointed down like this, then the plot would be exactly zero.

And that's because here we would have 10 plus ones and 10 minus ones and their average is going to be

zero.

And so that is the basis for the phase lag index.

So the phase log index is really just telling us whether the collection of phase angle differences are

consistently pointing in the same direction relative to along the imaginary axis relative to the real

axis.

OK, now the Phasuk index is not the only game in town.

This is not the only method for computing synchronization based on the principle of ignoring phase lag

differences of zero or PI.

There are several other methods.

There's like the deep biased phase like index and the weighted device Phase III index and phase slope

index, imaginary coherence corrected imaginary coherence.

And I'm sure I'm missing a couple of other ones, but it doesn't matter.

So there are several different methods for computing this kind of connectivity.

I'm focusing on the PLI because I think it's just the easiest.

It's the simplest to explain and it's the easiest to understand.

And once you get this formula, once you can gain some intuition about this formula, then all these

other methods are, you know, more or less closely related to this, just slight variations.