 In this video, you are going to learn how to generate a frequency sliding chirp, a trip is a time serious signal that varies in frequency over time. So here you see an example. This is a sine wave. Well, it looks a bit like a sine wave, but you can see that it's not a pure sine wave because there are some frequency non stationary in the signal. So the signal starts off being kind of slow ish, relatively, and then it gets faster and faster over time. And here is when the signal is spinning its fastest. So the frequency is highest and then it's starting to slow down again as we go further in time. So this is called a chirp. And there's a couple of formulas for generating a chirp. There's one formula that is slightly simpler. That's for generating a chirp where you only specify two frequencies, one frequency in the beginning and one frequency at the end. And the signal will transition linearly and gradually from the first frequency to the second frequency. But it turns out that that is just a simplification of the main formula. So I decided I'm only going to show you the main formula. If you keep this formula handy, then you will be able to create any arbitrary frequency, fluctuating signal. So here is the formula. And I guess what's slightly missing is a little confusing here, is that this generates not the entire formula, but this is for one time point. So this is time point of the formula is the sine function and then two PI times the quantity Y plus T. And here I have a subscript here to indicate that both Y and T are vectors. These are functions of time. So these are changing at every time point. Now T is the time vector. So of course that's changing every time point. That would be this time vector here on the x axis. And this vector Y here is defined according to this formula. So this is Delta, which is the data sampling rate. Sorry, actually this is not the sampling rate, this is the sampling interval. So this is the inverse of the sampling rate. So if you're sampling rate is 1000 hertz or one kilohertz, then Delta here would correspond to one. So one millisecond is the sampling interval and then this indicates the cumulative sum. So from the beginning of the time vector up until the tenth time point, the sum of all the frequency points that you want to include. So basically you start by generating a vector of frequencies and then you plug that into this formula that gives you Y and then you plug Y into this formula and that gives you this time series. All right, so this is just a little bit of math, and I think it will be a little bit more concrete when you see it in Matlab here, I'm specifying some simulation details. So we're going to generate a signal for ten thousand points with a sampling rate of one thousand twenty four hertz. And here is just some arbitrary time vector, so it just goes from zero to the number of time points minus one, and then all of a sudden this vector gets divided by the sampling rate. And because this sampling rate is around one kilohertz and this is ten thousand points this time series, the signal is going to end up being somewhere around 10 seconds, a little bit under ten seconds. So I run this code by pressing control. Enter. And now here I'm going to show you two different ways of creating turps, we have the bipolar chirp and the multipolar chirp. This is commented out. So first I'm going to show you the bipolar chirp. So it's linearly spaced numbers from five to 15, which means we start the signal at five hertz and we finish the signal at 15 hertz. And this is what I call it, variable F in the formula, in the slides here, we generate the signal so you can see that the signal is equal to the sign of two PI times and then the quantity of time plus the cumulative sum of this variable. Freck Modrich in the formula, I call it F and now here it's divided by the sampling rate, which is the same thing as multiplying by the sampling interval, because the sampling interval is itself just the inverse of the sampling rate. So this quantity here, this is what I called variable Y in the formula, in the slides and also in the formula. I had it Y plus T, but it doesn't matter. And easy to make mistake that you have to watch out for is to forget to include the parentheses here, which actually means you're saying two pi times time and then totally separately plus Y. So that is incorrect. So it has to be two pi times the quantity of time. Plus this cumulative sum, the frequency time series. OK, so run this code and I'll run this code. Basically this is just plotting the variable F here showing you that we are increasing in frequency from five hertz up to 15 hertz. And here you see what the actual signal looks like. So you can see it starts off a little bit slower and it gets faster over time. OK, so this is for a bipolar chirp. Now, I'm going to uncommented these two lines to create a multipolar chirp. And essentially what I'm doing is coming up with ten random numbers and then I am linearly interpolating those random numbers. So run this again and then you can see what that's doing. So this is now the Frequency Time series. It goes from eight to, you know, eight and a half, and then it jumps up to 15 or something. And then there's just linear transitions between them. So that generates this interesting looking time series. And of course, you can run this again and you're going to get different results. The key point here is that to generate this chirp, you have to specify a frequency for each individual time point. That's the whole idea. So we can look at the size of this fragment variable. You can see it's ten thousand points long, which is the same as the length of the signal. Now, from here, you now have the skills to make this frequency modulator be any arbitrary shape you want. For example, you can make this be a Gaussian so we can start at some number and then it can go up and then it can smoothly go down or anything else you like. You can even make this itself be a sine wave so that the frequency of the signal would get faster and then slower and faster and slower and so on.