In this video, you are going to learn how to create transient features in time, serious signals.

Now, there are many kinds of transients.

I'm only going to focus on two here.

One is a Gaussian, which you've already learned about and another one is a little wavelet, which is

just a combination of a Gaussian and a sine wave.

So the Gaussian, you've already learned the formula for Gaussian.

I won't really talk much about this.

Just as a quick reminder that sometimes you see the formula expressed this way.

Other times you see the formula expressed this way.

I have been arguing recently that this is a much better way to express the Gaussian because the key

parameter of a Gaussian is this full with half maximum.

This formula makes that full with enough maximum explicit and easily interpretable here.

With this formula, it's a little bit trickier.

You have to apply some other formulas or compute the full with enough maximum empirically in order to

convert this parameter.

S this with parameter into a sensible full with that half maximum.

OK, anyway.

To create a transient oscillation, you basically take exactly that Gaussian and then you point lies,

multiply it by a sine wave, or in this case I'm showing a cosine wave, but can be a sign or co-sign.

The key thing to keep in mind here is that this vector t of time points has to be exactly the same as

this vector T of time points.

So first of all, if they are different lengths, then you're just going to get an error when you try

to run this in Matlab.

But it actually is possible to make these have the same length, these two vectors t to have the same

length, but they correspond to different times, or maybe they're generated from different sampling

rates.

So that's something important to keep in mind.

Now this s parameter gets reinterpreted as this function so n over two pi, f or F is the same as the

frequency that you're using for the sine wave and is a key parameter that is called the number of cycles,

and that basically corresponds to the width of the Gaussian.

Again, as I mentioned a minute ago, I tend to prefer using the other expression of a Gaussian that

makes the full with that half maximum more clear.

However, you will often see, unfortunately, more often I think you will see the Gaussian expressed

in this way where and is the number of cycles anyway, when you look at that here, you look at this

signal here, you can see that it is flat here and it's close to zero here.

So this is the Gaussian that's tapering this sine wave of this cosine wave.

And so you get a both time limited and frequency limited signal.

And this turns out to be really useful for simulating signals, for testing EEG data analyses, because

this is pretty typical of what you would see in the brain during all sorts of cognitive perceptual motor

language processes.

You see that the brain engages in very transient but also narrowband responses that look something like

this, not, you know, not this purely sinusoidal, but they look something like this.

In fact, this function is called a Morleigh Wavelet, which I will talk more about in the section on

time frequency analysis.

OK, so let's have a look in Matlab.

Here I set up some simulation details.

I'm going to simulate the data at one kilohertz for four thousand ten points and here I specify the

time vector to go from zero to and minus one divided by the sampling rate.

But then I'm subtracting one one second here.

So that actually means that instead of time starting at zero, time will start at minus one and then

it will go up to three seconds instead of going up to four seconds.

Here are some parameters for the Gaussian.

So we have the peak time, the full with the maximum in seconds.

So there's four hundred milliseconds and the sine wave and let me see, that's a little.

So where does this one go.

OK, so my apologies.

This is a little bit of a typo so that should be here and then we can get rid of this variable.

OK, that looks better.

So now.

So these are the two key parameters for the Gaussian.

This is the key parameter for the sine wave, which is basically just the frequency of the sine wave.

Here I create the Gaussian.

This is no different from a formula you've seen before.

Here I create the cosine.

Now, initially, so far, you know, this part is no different from what you've seen before, and,

you know, you could also make this a sign.

It doesn't need to be a.

The main difference is that I'm generating a face value that is random.

So you will recall from the video on generating noise.

That uniform noise distribution can have two parameters, it can have a shift parameter, it can have

a stretch parameter, the stretch parameter is multiplicative and that's what we're doing here.

So this will generate some random number between zero and one and then multiplying it by two PI.

And that's basically stretching this distribution to go between zero and two PI.

So this is a random face value that I'm adding to the inside of this cosine function.

And this is called nonces.

Like this is how you simulate non phase locked signals.

So I'll show you what this looks like in a minute.

Here we generate the signal.

You see, it's a cosine element which is multiplied by the Gaussian and then just some plotting here.

So I have to run this code now.

I can run this code.

So here you see this transient oscillation.

It peaks at one.

And you can see the Gaussian envelope and now what I'm going to do is just rerun this code multiple

times and you can see, you know, if you imagine the Gaussian envelope here so that Gaussian is the

same on every trial.

But the exact timing of the sine wave is different on every trial.

And that's really because this thing.

So if I say multiply this by zero, then now every time I rerun this cell, I get exactly the same result.

So you will see in the projects coming up later in this section, you're going to be asked to generate

phase locked signals, phase lock signals or partially phase lock signals.

So this generates a purely phase lock signal.

It doesn't have to be zero.

This can be any number.

The important thing is just that the rand is isn't in there.

So it can be any arbitrary number, purely non phase locked would be something like this.

So the phases are totally randomly distributed from any possible value of phase in radians, which is

between zero and two pi.

Or you can generate partially phase locked activity by, for example, generating phase values randomly

from not the entire possible distribution of phases, but only from part of the distribution.

So here we can sample from half of the distribution of random phase values that's going to give us partially

phase locked activity.