 In this video, I'm going to introduce you to one of the sample data sets that we will be working with quite often in this course, and I also want to introduce you to the egg lab egg structure. So egg lab is a toolbox for Matlab. It's free. You can download it, you can search for ETG lab and you'll find it. Now, you do not need the ETG lab toolbox for this course. There's nowhere in this course where you really, really need the entire egg lab toolbox. However, if you are doing neuroscience time series analysis with EEG or MGG or FFP, you might find it useful. It's not the only tool box. There's also fieldtrip and brain vision analyzer and sperm and many other toolboxes for analyzing EEG data. But I keep my data in the lab structure, which is called EEG. And so what I want to do in this video is give you a brief introduction to this EEG structure just so you have a bit of an idea of what's contained in there. All right. So here we go. You can load in this file sample EEG data wherever you are downloading the rest of this code from. And let's start by exploring it. So, first of all, whenever you load in a new math file, it's always good to see what is in the workspace. So that's from a previous video. Let me clear that. And loaded and again, OK, now we can type who's and we see there's a variable called EEG. It's a structure. And that is the main variable that's contained inside this match file, so let's explore it a bit. Let's have a look and see what EEG or EEG contains. So there are many, many fields in this EEG structure. Many of these are stepto empty, which means that we don't need them. I just want to direct your attention to a few of the key fields that we will need and use often. So one, for example, is NBCSN, which is the number of channels in this dataset. So 60 for trials is the number of trials points, the number of time points, the sampling rate in Hertz, Xmen and X max are the time in seconds. So the first time point is minus one second and the last time point is plus one point five seconds. That times is a vector of time points. You can see there's six hundred and forty time points, which makes sense here. It says there six hundred and forty time points. And one of the most important fields in this entire structure is called data, and that is where all the data are contained. So you see here, this is a three dimensional matrix. So it's a cube of numbers and it's sixty four by six hundred and forty by ninety nine. That corresponds to the number of channels, the number of time points in each trial and the number of trials. This order channels buy time by trials, every data set in the lab has exactly that same order. So it's worth committing that to memory. So it's always channels by time. And if you don't have any trials, if you have continuous data, then it's just going to be a two dimensional matrix of channels by time. And if you have trials, then you will see a third dimension for trials. Another important field in ETG structure is called Channels Locks that contains all of the channel locations, I will show you a little bit about what's contained in here. So this is itself an array of structures. I'll show you this in a minute. And let's see, another one that's important is APOC. You can see that that's also a structure and there's 999 of those corresponding to 999 trials. OK, so let me start by showing you a little bit about the ITG channel so you can see this itself is a structure array with these fields. So there's labels and X, Y, Z, these are the physical locations. In Cartesian coordinates, in polar and spherical coordinates, so we can look at just one of those, for example, EEG that can looks how about thirty nine? That's a good number. Channel thirty nine. The thirty ninth channel in this data set is at location or the electro that's called F2. And this is the X Y coordinates. So we can already start playing around with this a little bit, get some experience in Matlab, so what I'm going to do is plot all of the electrode locations. So I need the X and the Y coordinates for all of the channels. I'm going to say plot EEG that channels that X and EEG that looks that way. And I'm using square brackets here to concatenate all of these individual structure elements. So let's see what that looks like. OK, so that's kind of interesting looking. It's a nice pattern, but it's not really what we expect. So I think it would look a little bit better if we had it as squares like this. And let's make the Axis Square as well. And I can see this is the layout of the channels on the scalp. Now it looks a little weird, and that's because we're ignoring the Z dimension. So some of these electrodes are actually not as close to each other as you think they are. So let's try doing this again in three dimensions. And I'm going to say plot three. So we have X by Y, and now we need EEG to channel that Z. OK, and now do Axis Square again and I will turn rotate 3D on. Now I can move this around and I think you get a better sense of what the electrodes look like on the scalp. Next, I want to introduce you to the epic field at EPIC with an E.. So it's also a structure array and it contains these fields which are all about the events. So these are the different things that happened in the experiment. So let's just look at epic number forty, which is trial number 40. Now, there's a lot of information in here, most of which you don't need. The two fields that you need most often are the event latency and the event type, these are the only two fields that we are going to be working with for the rest of this course. The event latency corresponds to the timing of events in the experiment when the subject was sitting in front of the computer and doing the task. This is in milliseconds. So the first event had a code of thirty one and that appeared at time zero and then the next event had a code of one, and that occurred at a time of three hundred and seventeen milliseconds after time zero. So it turns out this is a picture that appeared on the screen. This is a button pressed. So on this particular trial, the latency. Between when the stimulus appeared, when the picture appeared on the screen and when the subject pressed, the button was three hundred and seventeen milliseconds. So the reaction time on this trial was three hundred and seventeen milliseconds. This actually corresponds to the stimulus on the next trial. So we don't really care about this one. Obviously, there's a lot of very experimental specific details that go into this egg. So don't worry if you don't really understand everything here. The point is that for this data set, all you really need to know is that time zero is when a picture appeared on the screen and the next one after that, the next event after that is when the individual in this experiment pressed a button. OK, so with that as a quick introduction to the egg structure, we're going to now do a few basic analyses that are often done with egg data. First, we are going to compute the ERP, which stands for event related potential. All right. That out. So that's event related potential. Upside potential. And that is simply the average over all the trials at each time point. So to compute the event related potential, all you need to do is average the data. Remember, data is a three dimensional cube of data over the third dimension and we want the third dimension because that is the one let's see here. It's the third dimension that corresponds to trials. So therefore I expect that this variable should be channeled by time, which it is. Sixty four channels. Six hundred and forty time points. OK, so let me run this code and then I'll explain what this line does. So here you see the event related potential. This is basically the average brain potential phase locked part of the signal. Averaged over all the trials. So there's some noise and some jitters before the stimulus comes on. Here's when the picture appears and then you see this brain potential here and then eventually it goes back to the kind of baseline level of noise. All right, so what I'm doing here is plotting the data only from one channel. Now, remember, I showed you these channel locations, all have particular labels. So the names of the electrodes, so what I'm using here is this function, SDR, CompE, ISO String, compare the eye is for ignore, that means to ignore case. So this result will be the same as this result. So here I'm finding one channel out of this matrix and then all of the time points. So now it's interesting to plot different channels. You can say, you know, plot one, for example, and that looks different. We can do let's say, I don't know. See, how about C8? So here we get an error. It says vectors must be the same length. And the problem here is that there is no Channel C eight in this dataset. So this is all empty. You can see this is a vector of all zeros. This is a boolean vector of zeros. So there is no Channel C eight. If you want a list of all the channels, you can type in curly brackets, e.g. that channel that labels and that will give you the list of all of the channel labels. OK, now we are going to make a topographical map. So here the idea is we're looking at something that this is something we do have at 63. So here we are looking at the data from one channel. But of course, the potential is going to change over time. And over space, so the topography will look different over time, so therefore I'm using the Function Topal plot. This is my hacked version of the EEG lab Function Topal plot, which is a really great function for visualizing topographical data. However, that function relies on other sub functions within the lab toolbox. And I don't want you to have to download and install the entire Eagly program only to run one line of code. So therefore I hacked their etoposide function. I call it TOPA, but indeed because it's independent of the toolbox. But all creative and intellectual credit for this function goes to each level. OK, so the way the topographical plotting works is you pick one time point and then you get the plot, the data at all the channels. So here you see a topographical map. This is the head here. And this is as if you are looking down on the top of someone's head. Here's the nose and the left ear and the right here. And each corresponds to the location of a channel and the color is basically just a smooth, so spatially interpolated signal across the different channels. So at this time point at time point one hundred thirty three hundred, the topography looks like this. This line is important because you need to convert the time point that you want in milliseconds into an index, so it turns out that the three hundred and thirty fourth index in EDG Times, which also means in the data, corresponds to approximately 300 milliseconds. So this is pretty interesting. You can try and plot different time points. So here's what the topography looks like. One hundred milliseconds after the stimulus. Here's what it looks like. Six hundred milliseconds after the stimulus and so on. So in this video, I introduced you to the lab structure. We will be using this structure quite a bit throughout the rest of the course.