Here is the first project you can see, it's just a lot of Matlab code, and what I'm going to do in

this video is walk you through the code a little bit just to make sure that you understand what the

general idea is and what the goal is.

In the next video, I will show you the solutions or my solutions to this assignment.

You can see it's this code here, and it's so tempting to want to look at this code, isn't it?

I'm not going to show you this code yet.

So here are your instructions.

The goal of this assignment is to simulate time series data that can be used to test time series analysis

methods.

So for each section below and a section is basically this cell of code with this number.

So this is assignment one.

This is a time and two and so forth.

So for each of these sections, each assignment, you should complete the Matlab code.

You'll see.

So this first one I've done for you, but you'll see in other cases, sometimes I give you a little

bit of hint.

Sometimes I already write some code for you to give you a bit of a helping hand.

So complete the Matlab code, put make sure the data go into this lab EEG structure, which I've already

introduced you to in a previous video, and then use this function that I have provided to plot some

of the data.

So this is the necessary stuff.

What I recommend here is point for would be to change the parameters and see what the effects of those

parameters are on the resulting graph.

OK, so this first assignment I've already done for you, so I'll walk you through this quickly.

So I'm generating a new EEG structure.

We need a sampling rate.

We need a number of time points.

We need the number of trials and we need the number of channels.

So this is the data set that we are or the parameters of the data that we are creating here is a sine

wave frequency.

And I guess I should have said the goal here.

So the goal is to create a pure phase locked sine wave.

So now we're going to do is loop over all the channels, loop over all the trials, and here we generate

the data.

Now, you remember from the video on the EEG lab EEG structure that this field EEG, that data always

has the same problem, the same dimensions.

So it's always channels by time, by trials or repetitions.

So in this loop, over channels and over trials, we are creating the data.

So the time series data for this channel and this trial is just a sine wave.

So it's sine to Pi F and then here is T is this time vector.

Now in this particular case, it turns out that you don't really need the double for loop.

You could also solve this by using this line and basically embedding this into a rep, that function

to repeat this matrix, the number of times corresponding to the number of channels by the number of

trials.

And if you'd like to do that, that's fine.

However, there will be plenty of other cases where you actually do need this double loop here.

OK, so now here is a little bit of plotting, just to give you a sense of how to plot that ERP from

one channel.

I also discussed basically something like this in that video on the egg Labbe egg structure.

But the key function that you're going to be using in this project and this assignment is this function

plot, SIM EEG, which is a function that I wrote specifically for this project.

And this takes certainly one input, which is the EEG data.

And there are two optional inputs.

The second input is a channel number and the third input is a figure number.

So the channel number is if you want to plot different channels.

Now, in this case, you know, for this particular assignment, every channel has exactly the same

sine wave.

So there's no sense in plotting different channel numbers.

However, in other assignments and also in Project two, where you're going to stimulate dipole data

and project that to EEG channels, showing the data at different channels actually does make a lot of

sense.

And the third argument is for figure number.

And actually, I'll show you in a minute why that's useful.

So I know that all this code works.

So I'm just going to press control, enter and we get a figure.

So this function here, Blotz in Meghji is always going to produce a figure that looks like this.

So you see the ERP, the time domain trial, average potential here on the top.

Now, in this particular case, this is really not a very interesting result.

Every trial looks exactly the same.

You see the static power spectrum.

So this is the result of computing the 48 transform over this entire window.

Also not super interesting.

We simulated a sine wave at six point seventy five hertz.

And that's where you see this peak here.

And this is the time frequency response.

Also not super interesting here.

Now, if you would like to see what is going on inside this function, I certainly encourage you to

do that.

You can open up this function.

Look through this is just some initial input checks.

Here is the section for computing, the ERP computing, the static power spectrum and computing a time

frequency analysis.

However, if you are looking through this code and you don't really understand it, then don't worry.

These are the kinds of things that you will learn about later on in this course.

The main point here is that you can use this.

Now, I want to just introduce you to why it's useful to have this optional third input to be a figure

number.

So if you want to try changing different parameters or plotting different channels in the data, then

you can use this as a way to easily compare between the two results.

So, for example, I'm going to change this from the sine frequency to oh, it's just I'm lazy, so

I'll just put a one in front.

So I've changed some of the parameters here and I'm going to change this figure number to four and then

I can run this cell again.

And now you can see it's really easy to go back and compare between these two different results.

OK, so that's generally about what you're supposed to do and what the results will look like.

What I want to do now is just go through each of these assignments, each of these little problems.

That's quickly just to make sure that it's clear what you have to do.

So the second part is really similar to the first assignment.

In fact, I even say that you should copy and paste the code, but add something into the sine function

on each trial.

So this is a phase locked sine wave.

And what you want to do here is create a non phase lock sine wave.

And there's multiple options for doing this.

It can be purely non phase, like you can try making it partially phase locked and so on.

This term phase locked and non phase locked.

This is something that I introduced in the video on transient oscillations.

OK, so now for number three, what you want to do is generate multi sine signals, which is really

similar to this, except this is just one signal.

And here you want to generate looks like three Steinway's and you sum them together to create one composite

sine wave.

That's pretty interesting.

Once you get this to work, you can try, for example, changing these frequencies to see what happens

as these frequencies get closer and closer to each other.

What is the representation in the static power spectrum?

So just the F.T. versus the time frequency plot.

That's a pretty interesting thing to look for.

Let's see here.

We have non stationary sine wave.

So here again, you want to copy and paste the code from here.

So it should look something like this, except this is going to be a non stationary sine wave.

There are several ways to create non stationary sine waves.

One of the ways I showed is to create this chirp.

So you have a signal that changes in its frequency.

The overtime, and this just gives you a little bit of a hint.

There are other methods as well, you can generate pure noise and shape it by a Gaussian and then take

that back into the time domain using the inverse Fourier transform and so on.

Here you want to again simulate data in the same way so you can copy and paste from assignment one and

then you want to generate a transient oscillation using a Gaussian.

So here I've created the Gaussian for you.

And then you multiply the Gaussian by a sine wave, so basically that's going to replace this pure sine

wave with something that's zero and then at some point, you know, you got to pick where you want this

thing to peak.

It's going to generate a time limited and narrow band response.

Now, here, it's a problem, six and seven.

You want to basically repeat number three and here you repeat number five and you're just going to add

two different kinds of noise.

So here you add white noise is just pure random numbers, and this will be one over every noise.

All right.

So good luck working way through this project.

And I really encourage you to try and solve this project without first looking at the solution in the

next video, I'm going to walk you through my solution and you can see some of the ways of solving some

of these problems and simulating data.