 Here is the second project in this section, it's all about simulating data at the dipole level and then projecting it to the scalp. Now, there's a lot of material that's in this project that is really, really similar or sometimes exactly the same as in Project one. So that's why I hope this whole project one first and now you're working on a project to the main difference is this business of simulating data and dipoles and then projecting it out to the scalp. So this is exactly the code that I showed you in the previous video. And this is also exactly the code I showed in the previous video and what I'm going to do for the rest of this video the next minute or so is just walk you through the rest of this code, the rest of this project, and make sure you understand each individual point. First of all, it's important to check this structure. This is not a blank structure that is similar to the one that we just created from scratch in Project one instead. This comes from the data file empty. So you have to be careful that some parameters are already set in here. For example, this data that comes preloaded with sixty four channels. So that's good. Everything is internally consistent, but only one trial and actually even comes with that. So I even change this. I think initially this was around 10 seconds of data and then I overwrote this year to be two seconds or not two seconds, but two thousand time points. It's a little bit under 20 seconds with a sampling rate of ten, twenty four. But in particular, there's only one trial. So you might want to add more trials. Maybe you want to have a different sampling rate, maybe you want to have a little bit of a longer time period. Anything is fine. Just be mindful of that, OK? So for example, I gave a suggestion here to have 40 trials. Of course, you're welcome to change that parameter. Now, the goal of assignment one question one. Is to see how small the activity can be in a dipole such that you can still measure it from the channel level, from outside the head. So what you should do is to start with in this problem, generate a brain of all zeros, all the activity and all the deposit zero except for one. This is a trial. Should say Dipo one. Dipo should have some non-zero activity and it's going to be a pure sine wave. So essentially it's going to look really similar to this. And then the question here is, what is the smallest amplitude at the Dipo level that still produces a skalp level, measurable response? Then you want to repeat that with noise, so then say, given that the dipoles signal that a sine wave, so that's going to be basically copying and pasting here, given that the amplitude of the sine wave is one, what is the standard deviation of noise such that the noise will overpower the signal? OK, so that's this problem. And then here you want to generate a non oscillatory transient in one dipole and noise in all the other dipoles. Now, this part, anonymous, military, transient, this is something very similar to what you solved in Project one. So feel free to copy and paste that, although, of course, you will need to make some modifications for the dipoles simulation here. Problem for and that's the last problem here. That one's a little bit more involved. Basically what you want to do. Is simulate not one dipole, as we've been doing earlier, but actually two dipoles, so you want to generate two dipoles in the to dipoles in the brain. One of those dipoles gets a non oscillatory oscillation, sorry, non stationary oscillation and the other dipole gets a transient oscillation and then you want to project both of those to the scalp and you can pick the dipoles however you like, but just make sure that they project at least a little bit differently to the topography that will allow you to plot and compare both of the dipole projections. So these happened to be the two channels, the numbers of the two channels that are most strongly projected to by the two dipoles that I picked. But of course, you can pick whatever you like. Now, when you do this, I recommend copying and pasting some of this code so you can see where the dipole is and what the scalp topography is. Of course, you'll need to change the figure a little bit because you're going to have to topographical projections, not just one. All right. Good luck working through this project. And as a reminder, don't look at the solutions. Work through this all on your own. And then when you finish, you can check out my solutions.