 In this video, you are going to have the opportunity to program the Fourier transform from scratch. It's not as hard as it sounds. Essentially, you have a loop that goes over frequencies from one to RN where N is the number of time points in the signal. And then inside that loop, you have to create a complex sine wave. And then you compute the four year coefficient for this frequency as the DOT product between the signal. So this signal here and the complex sine wave that you generate here, so you can see that there's these two key lines of code that are missing. I encourage you to pause the video now and see if you can figure out these two lines of code. All right. So first, let's start by actually, I think I'll start by plotting the signal, which I do later on, but I'll plot it here anyway. So the signal just to have a look so you can see there's a little bit of a sine wave and it's also a little bit noisy and that you see here. So I see a sign of basically linearly spaced numbers from zero to four pi. So that's going to give us two cycles. And then I add some random noise and then divide it by two here. And that's really just to scale it down a little bit so that the sine wave is still prominent on top of all this noise. OK, so here inside the loop over frequencies. We specify the complex sine wave, so complex sine wave means you take the innards of a sine wave, so that's going to be two times PI times the frequency. And it turns out that you want the first sine wave to correspond to zero hertz. So that means it has to be F.I. minus one. So two PI times F times the time vector, which is called F time. And now instead of saying just the sign of all this, you embed this inside Euler's formula. So that's going to be E to the I times to PI F.T. And now we need to add a factor of minus. So we need to multiply the inside of this complex exponential complex sine wave by minus one, and that is to balance out with the inverse Fourier transform, which we'll discuss in the next video where there is no minus time. OK, and then once we create this complex sine wave, then we compute the product between this sine wave and the signal. And the DOT product, of course, is the point. Y's multiplication and then some. So we take the Fourier sign dot star. So Element Y's multiplication, the signal and then we want to sum over all of these elements. And then here I divide by NP. That's just the normalization factor. And then here I'm computing the F.T. of the signal and what we should see in the following cell when we do some plotting is that when we plot the power spectrum from the four year coefficients here that I've computed manually versus the four eight coefficients here computed from Matlab 50 function, of course those should be equivalent. All right. So I just ran this cell and there's no errors down here, no warning. So that's already a good sign. That doesn't mean that I've done everything correctly, but at least I haven't made any overt errors. All right. And then here we do some plotting and you see again the same signal, the time domain. And here you see the let's see, this is I believe this is actually the amplitude spectrum, not the power spectrum. And you see that these are overlapping for the manual, for you transform and the output of the fast for you transform and here plotting the entire spectrum. So you can see it's mirrored over here. This would be the Nyquist over here. So you see the positive frequencies, the negative frequencies mirroring the positive frequencies. And the only difference is that there's one extra point over here corresponding to the DC and you don't see a corresponding point here because there is no minus zero hertz.