In the first section of this course, I talked about how a lot of data analysis is really just about

source separation.

So a lot of times when you're working with data processing, neural time, serious data, the goal is

to separate sources that get mixed at the level of the sensors or the channels.

And so part of the idea of doing spectral analysis of neural data or data more generally is to see if

you can separate distinct sources in the data using spectral methods like the F.T. that are not separable

when using other analysis methods like time domain analysis or just by looking at space.

So that's what I'm going to introduce you to in this video.

What we're going to do is generate EEG data by simulating band limited activity, so narrow band activity

in two dipoles.

But those dipoles are selected such that they project to overlapping electrodes, not identical.

So you can see that the topographical projections from these two neighboring dipoles are close dipoles

are not identical, but they are really overlapping.

And you will see in a few minutes that it's not possible to separate the activity of each of these dipoles

by picking two different electrodes.

So any two electrodes that you pick are going to reflect a combination, a mixture of the activity at

these two dipoles, but we can separate them Spectra.

OK, so here are the two dipoles that I've picked.

All the code in this cell is all the same code that you've seen in previous sections of the course.

I won't really talk about this much.

Here I adjust the parameters, basically, because I want to have multiple trials and I don't know,

one thousand one hundred and forty three time points, because that seems like as good a number as any

other.

And here I'm creating the data.

So let's have a look down and see how this works.

So looping over trials, creating variable or matrix dip that so dipole data, you can see it's normally

distributed at random numbers, so just pure noise.

It's scaled down.

And then we have the activity in the two dipoles and those are both a sine wave multiplied by Gaussian.

So those are both little wavelets that's going to give us narrowband activity.

So this sine wave gives us activity that's limited in the frequency domain and the Gaussian gives us

activity that's limited in the time doing OK.

So then you can see that the Gaussian is the same.

So it's one common Gaussian for both of these dipole activations.

And that's already important to know because that means that temporally these two dipole activations

are not separable.

So they overlap in time.

There's one Gaussian for both, but we can see that spectral these are going to be separable because

one dipole is going to have a frequency of nine hertz and the other one of 14 hertz.

So then here you see just the two pure sine waves and then that's basically it.

And then here at the bottom is this plot, same EEG function to plot different channels and plotting

Channel Twenty.

Let's see.

So you can see Channel Twenty is here and that overlaps between the two projections.

And then Channel 30 also overlaps between the two projections.

Channel twenty nine is also overlap again.

I mean, I tried to find an electrode that's really selective for spatially selective for one of these

dipole projections and not the other, but I couldn't really find one.

All right, now I'm going to run this and we will look at these three figures and see what we see.

OK, so when you look at the ERP, this is from Channel twenty nine.

When you look at the ERP, you can actually see both of these sine waves on top of each other.

So this I hope you can see that this is not a pure one frequency sine wave.

This is actually a mixture of two sine wave already.

So in the time domain it's not possible to separate these two signals.

However, in the frequency domain, it is possible to separate these two signals.

Here you see the signal from Dipo, one that was with nine hertz, and here is four dipole, two that

was 14 hertz.

And also in the time frequency domain, you can see that they are somewhat separable.

There's a little bit of mixture in here.

So this dipole also Channel twenty nine is dominated by the projection from dipole too.

So there's a stronger projection from dipole to compare to type one that you see here.

But there is a clear mixture of both dipoles.

Let's actually go back to these maps and look for elektro.

Twenty nine, right.

So twenty nine is back here.

So the number is somewhat obscured by the back of the head, but the electorate is back here.

So you can see looking at the color gradient that it's a bit more red here than here.

So we have a stronger projection from dipole to compare it to dipole one.

OK, so now we can look at some of these other electrodes.

This is Channel Thirty and there's now it's even more obvious in the time domain and in the frequency

domain, it's pretty evenly mixed between these two dipoles.

But again, using spectral methods, it should be able to separate these two sources.

So the broader point of this video is an illustration of how activity from two distinct sources can

be overlapping in time.

So non separable in time are inseparable in time, inseparable in space, but they can be separated

in the frequency domain or in the time frequency domain and this kind of idea.

So separating these better and quantifying the separation is something we will explore a bit more in

one of the projects at the end of this section.