 This project follows closely from the video in this section of the course that was called Spectral Separation on simulated dipole data. So please make sure you watch that video before completing this project. In that video you saw that went to dipoles in the brain that are close to each other, project to overlapping sets of electrodes, then these two distinct sources are not spatially separable. So you can't separate the sources by picking different electrodes. They're also not temporally separable because the activities, the ear piece from those two dipoles are mixed at all the channels. However, I suggested that it might be possible to separate these two sources using spectral methods. And that is your goal in this project. So what you want to do is generate topographies of power at different frequencies to see how well you can separate the two sources, the two dipole activities based on power spectra in different frequency ranges. And now the reason why we are doing this using simulated data and not real data is because you want to compare the data quantitatively, compare the results of your analysis to the ground truth, which is the dipole projections, so you can compute the fit of the data to the template. And by template I mean this. So you take this as your template. This is the projection of each dipole onto the scalp and you want to see how well or how closely your data, your results match this template. OK, so the beginning of this code is literally copied and pasted from that previous video on spectral separation. So you can run all this, but you don't actually need to do anything. It's all fine. Here is where the project actually starts. So what you want to do is compute the power spectrum of all the channels and then you can pick some frequency cutoffs to use. So, for example, you know, you want to isolate this bump to this feature in the frequency domain and this feature in the frequency domain. So you'll need to find where these features are in indices and then you want to extract power and all the channels. And that's ultimately going to give you a topographical map that you can plot. I think that's this one here. Yeah. So here you see the topographical map of power from IPIC three point six to ten point seven, but you can pick whatever range you think is appropriate. So here is power at that lower frequency and here's the topographical map of power at the higher frequency. Now, you can already see visually, qualitatively that this map looks closer to this map from the Dipo one, this projection from Dipo one compared to the relationship between these data, this low frequency power map and the projection of dipole two and vice versa for the data from this higher frequency. So but this is just a visual comparison, then. What you want to do is quantify that comparison by computing R squared. So this says R2, but that's really R squared and R squared for a simple by very comparison is literally the correlation coefficient squared. They want to correlate the low frequency topographical power with the projection onto the electrodes at Dipole one. And also, of course, you have to repeat this four times. Ultimately, that's going to give you a bar graph that looks something like this. Here you can see how I labeled these variables, I call this low band, so the low frequency band to Dipo one and then the low frequency band to Dipole, too, and so on. Then you're going to get this crossover interaction that looks like this while hopefully you will get this crossover interaction where the Y axis is the fit to the ground truth. So that's the R squared. And then what you see here is that the R squares are higher for the matching pairs. So for the low frequency band and Dipo one and for the higher frequency band and Dipole two, and they're lower for the other one. So good luck working your way through this project. In the next video, I will show you my solutions.