This is the second project in this section of the course and in this project, you are going to compute

something called the Alpha to theta ratio.

So it's exactly how it sounds.

It's the ratio of power in the Alpha Band to the theta band.

Then you have to compute this ratio at each electrode and that will allow you to compute topographical

maps at each electrode.

And that's what you see here.

So here are some more specific instructions.

So you need to extract alpha power and theta power and then the ratio between those that each channel.

And you want to do this in two time windows.

So the Alpha Theta ratio in minus 800 to zero milliseconds and zero to eight hundred milliseconds relative

to stimulus on set.

Here are the general frequency ranges for Theta and Alpha.

So the theta band refers to approximately three to eight hertz and the Alpha Band refers to approximately

eight to 13 hertz.

So you will need to compute in 40 and each channel in these two windows and then find the frequencies

in the range of three to eight and eight, 13 average, all of these frequencies together to give you

one estimate of alpha activity, average these together to give you one estimate of theta activity and

then compute the ratio between them.

Now, when you compute the 50, you want to zero pad to an end of the FFE to be one thousand points.

Furthermore, you want to make sure to use trial specific power.

So that means you have to compute the power or compute before you transform on each trial.

Not that your first computing the ERP and then taking one FFE of the effort of the ERP, OK, so you

can see I've written a little bit of code to help you get started.

The one thing that I would like to point out here is the way that I'm doing the indexing.

This is different from how I've done the indexing previously or so far in this course.

Previously I've used these search and then I've used minicabs and here I'm using this other construction.

I would like you to figure out on your own why this works, why this is the right solution, and how

this is going to be different from if I went like this, for example, if I said T I the X three equals

D search and the exact times and then minus eight hundred to zero.

So this line reflects the solution that I have taken so far in this course.

This is also a valid solution, but it's a different solution from this line.

OK, and otherwise I have to say, I haven't really given you a whole lot of useful code to work with,

so you're going to have to do quite a bit on your own.

In fact, basically, mostly what I've done is just suggest variable names for you to use.

OK, ultimately, once you can successfully solve this project, you should get a figure that looks

like this.

So this is the alpha to theta ratio, pre stimulus, the alpha, the theta ratio post stimulus.

And here is the subtraction of those two.

You'll need to figure out appropriate color ranges for these topographical maps.

And what I've done here is take exactly the same ratio, but transform it by putting it into the log

base 10 function.

And it will be interesting for you to see and also to think about what should the color limit be for

these maps versus these maps.

So for the raw alpha theta ratio versus the log of the ratio, and why would you have to use different

color values here?

All right.

So good luck working through this project.

And in the next video, I will show you my solutions.