 Hi, everyone, I hope you don't mind if I draw your attention away from the course material for just a moment, I want to talk about an important challenge in online learning. And this is just to get you thinking about this issue now. It will come as no surprise that I'm a huge fan of online education. It has so many advantages, like access to high quality education at low cost for people all over the world, the ability for you, the learner, to custom tailor your education to best match what you want to learn and of course, the ability to watch and repeat any lecture at any time according to your own schedule. But online education also has some drawbacks, some limitations and some challenges. And here I want to talk about one of those, which is the minimal accountability with online learning. You see, when you are in a traditional classroom setting with a teacher and other students, you have this entire external support structure to keep you going, keep you motivated, and make sure that you are up to date and up to speed with your work. Make sure that you keep studying consistently throughout the duration of the course. And that's really difficult to maintain in online course settings, because very often there is no external accountability. Most of the time it's just you. So if you work hard or lazy or you work fast or slow, it's pretty likely that no one's going to notice other than you. So no one's going to remind you when you start going a few days or even a few weeks without watching a lecture. And you know as well as I do that as soon as it becomes easy to take one day off, then it's even easier to take two days off and then three days off than a week off. And we all know where it goes from there. So what I would like you to do after watching this video is to take a moment to reflect on this issue of accountability. How important is it to you? Is it something that you think about, something you worry about, or maybe you just don't care about it? Is it challenging for you or is it easy for you to keep yourself motivated and keep working consistently? Or are you not worried about consistent progress and you're happy to work one period of time and then take a break and then work for another period of time and so on? Maybe there are tricks that you use that you've developed, that you've learned from other people to help with this issue of accountability and self motivation. So if you like, you can post a reply to the Q&A for this lecture, but it's totally not necessary. Mostly, I just want to bring up this important issue to make sure you are thinking about it, because this is something I think about often. It's I think this is one of the most important challenges and challenges of online education.