 In the previous video, I showed you a formula for a sine wave and I showed a few different pictures to give you some explanations of the three key parameters of sine waves. Now, it's one thing to passively watch your computer screen and look at some pictures, but it's a totally different experience to actually sit down and actively create these mathematical objects and get to work with them and see how the parameters actually affect the results. So what we are going to do in this video is explore sine waves and there parameters by writing some code. Well, I've already written a lot of code for you. You are going to just fill in the code and modify it. As with all of the Matlab based videos in this course, if you haven't already done so, the one I encourage you to do now is pause the video, go through this script on your own. So basically you would start at here where it says this video and then you would end at the start of the next video, which is here. And so what you should do is go through this code and try to understand what all the different lines of code are doing, what the general picture is. And not surprisingly, you will find some mistakes. You will find some bugs in the code. You will need to hunt down those bugs and fix them. All right. Now, I'm going to go through this. So the goal of this cell is to create a signal by summing together sine wave. So we are going to create a bunch of sine waves and some of them all together to create a slightly more complicated looking signal. So we define a sampling rate of 1000. I assume this is in Hertz. And then here we list some frequencies, amplitudes and phases. Now, notice that these are all vectors and each of these three vectors has the same number of elements. So they all have five elements. And so therefore, it's reasonable to expect that when we get down below here, we are going to be creating five sine waves. So the first sine wave will have a frequency of three hertz and amplitude of five and a phase of PI over seven. OK, so let's see. Run this and then we define a time vector. So it's going to go from minus one to plus one and steps of one over the sampling rate. And let's see, so here we have a loop, so we are initializing this matrix called sine waves to be zeros and it's the length of frequencies and the length of time. OK, so that's pretty clear. So this is a matrix where we are going to have five sound waves and two thousand one time points. By the way, it's worth noting that we have two thousand and one time points. It's an odd number of time points because we start and end the time vector the same distance away from the origin, away from zero. So and then we're going to have a zero in the middle. So we when you define time this way, you go minus one to plus one or minus N to plus end. Unless you have a really bizarre sampling rate, you're likely to get a time vector that has an odd number of points because there's going to be a value of zero in the center that actually turns out to be really important for creating more than wavelets and working with more like wavelets that have an odd length. So I will discuss that in more detail in the time frequency analysis section. Anyway, here we have a for loop. We're looping over frequencies and you can see that each element of the first dimension of this Steinway's matrix is the amplitude times sign of two pi F.T. plus theta plus this phase offset. OK, so let's run this code and we get an error. It says that's a really long error message and I don't feel like reading the whole thing, but the key word here is incorrect dimensions. So whenever you see an error message that says something about dimensions or sizes, the first thing you should do is look for the sizes of the different parts of the line. So let's start by breaking down this line of code into two parts. So there's the amplitude and then there's the sign. And let's first, you know, I'm just going to run this code X and we don't get an error here. And then we're not going to get an error here either. So that tells us that the error message is actually some something about the interaction between this and this and actually what's going on here. The problem is that this is a copy and paste and then I'm going to right size. So this part of the code here is a one by 2001 vector. So this is a row vector and amplitude you can see is a one by five vector. So what is the problem here? Well, the problem here is that we are inside this loop and we're supposed to be creating these sine waves one sine wave at a time. And that's why we're indexing the fifth element of the vector Frex and the FISA element of the vector phases. But here we're accessing the entire amplitude variable. So this, in fact, just needs to be indexed like that. And then I believe this will work. Yeah. So then we do some plotting and let's see what happens in this plot. So we create a figure and then we loop through all of these sine waves and specify a subplot. And then we are going to plot a sine wave on each of the subplots. And this comment says should be one sine wave per subplot. So let's see what happens. Hmm, well, we don't get any matlab coding errors and we did get a plot. However, it doesn't seem to be one sine wave per plot. So what is the problem here? Well, you might have figured it out already. The problem is that we are not indexing. So it's a similar problem to what we had up here. So let's see. We want sine waves. We want the F if it's not far, it's called sine I hear sine I element of sine wave. Is that correct? Is that the right thing to do. Let's try it. Hmm. This is very curious. It seems like we still don't get any matlab errors, but the plots are all empty. In fact, it turns out the plots are not empty. You can see that there's differences on the Y axis. What I've done here is indexed this matrix steinway's incorrectly. So I'm actually only indexing a single number, a single element into this matrix. So in fact, you don't really see it on your screen, I'm sure. But there is a tiny dot here at the very center. There's a tiny, tiny dot for one single point. So what we actually want to do is index the ith row and then all of the columns like this. So that gives us the first or the yeah. Each individual sine wave and then all of the time points. All right. I'm sure that you also figured this out great. So here we get five different sound waves corresponding to our five sets of parameters that we defined up here. And then what we're doing is summing all of these together. So we come up with a new plot, we create a new plot, and then we're plotting time by not just all the Steinway's individually, but we are summing them up and we are summing them up over the first dimension. That's what this comma one means. And what is the first dimension? The first dimension is the five different sine waves. So that is going to give us a signal that looks like this. So this is not a super complicated signal. It doesn't look like real data, doesn't look like real biological brain data, but it is a little bit more complicated. And this is a great way to simulate data to test the outcome of the Fourier transform, because when we apply the Fourier transform to this signal, we want to be able to recover all of these parameters that we specify here. OK, so that's basically the end. I'm going to stop there. You can run this code. I encourage you to run this code. I've already shown you this little GUI in the previous video. I guess I'll just run it again real quick. OK, so that creates this figure. And then what you can do with this figure is, you know, just sort of explore the parameter space and the relationship between the parameters, in particular the relationship between amplitude and phase. That's really important. And then you can also change the frequency here. So I hope that with the previous and this videos, you are now more comfortable working with and thinking about and parameter ising sine waves. That is the first of three fundamental steps for understanding the Fourier transform. Next up is complex numbers. That's in the next video.