In this video, I'm going to discuss complex numbers, you might have heard of complex numbers before,

in which case this video might be a useful refresher of the important concepts of complex numbers.

And if you haven't heard of complex numbers before, then great.

You can look forward to learning something new over the next 10 to 15 minutes.

Complex numbers are really important in spectral analysis and time frequency analysis, signal processing

more generally because Fourier coefficients are nothing more than complex numbers, as you will learn

soon.

So let me start by showing you the real number line.

This is the number line that you were used to seeing basically your whole life.

So we have zero in the middle, the negative numbers, the left and the positive numbers to the right.

So all the numbers that you are typically used to working with, certainly in practical day to day life,

is on this line.

So the idea of complex numbers is to extend our system of numbers from a one dimensional line to a two

dimensional plane.

So now we have something that looks a bit like a Cartesian axis where one axis is called the real axis.

It's all the real numbers.

And then up here we have the imaginary axis.

And this contains imaginary numbers going up and down.

Now, the units of the real axis is the number one.

So you can think of cutting up the real axis into units that correspond to the number one.

Likewise, the unit on the imaginary axis is the number I or the operator I.

This is called the imaginary operator and is defined as the square root of minus one.

Now this is a weird looking thing because the square root of negative numbers don't actually exist.

And for that reason they are given this special letter.

I sometimes people use J typically in mathematics literature, as you would see I and an engineering

literatures, you would see the letter J.

So what does this mean and where does this come from?

Well, mathematicians have known for a really long time that there needs to be some way to solve a problem

like this.

We need a solution to an equation like this.

And it turns out that the equations are the solution to this equation does not exist on the real number

line.

So therefore, mathematicians came up with this kind of exception, this this special case of an imaginary

operator.

Now, for a very long time in mathematics, this imaginary operator was just treated as kind of a bizarre,

exceptional case.

It wasn't formalized into a system of numbers.

In fact, it was Gauss from the Gaussian distribution who had the really creative and intelligent insight

that we can build an entire two dimensional number system by thinking about the imaginary operator as

a basis for an orthogonal axis or for a separate axis to extend this real number line into a complex

number plain.

So that is the basic idea of complex numbers that we take a number that has two parts, a real part

and an imaginary part.

And the imaginary part has this little funny looking eye attached to it, which is the square root of

minus one.

Now, complex numbers are a little bit weird.

They're weird to think about.

It's kind of a funny concept, but don't lose sleep over what complex numbers mean, what the imaginary

operator means, how exactly to interpret this quantity.

You know, whether intelligent life elsewhere in the universe also developed the system of complex numbers.

You don't need to worry about any of that.

All you need to be concerned with is that complex numbers and the imaginary operator are very useful

for applications in signal processing, engineering, applied math, physics and so on.

So don't worry about the meaning of complex numbers.

You can just be concerned with their use, their applicability.

So why are complex numbers so useful?

Well, complex numbers are so useful because they contain a lot of information.

In fact, they contain a lot more information than is just present in real numbers.

So, for example, with real numbers, all we have is kind of two pieces of information.

We have the magnitude, which is like the distance away from the origin, and then we have the sign,

which is negative or positive or zero.

But complex numbers contain a lot more information.

So complex numbers have these two parts, the real part and the imaginary part.

And you can see that when drawing this complex number on the graph, on the complex plane, it ends

up being a point in the location corresponding to these coordinates.

So two units over on the real axis, three units.

Up on the imaginary axis, so already, without even thinking about it too much, we see that complex

numbers contain two pieces of information, the real part and the imaginary part.

And each of those also has its own sign in addition to its magnitude.

And we get even more information than just what's present from these two numbers on their own.

We can also extract the magnitude or the length of the complex number, its distance away from the origin.

And that is not a function of only the real part or only the imaginary part.

It's actually a function of both the real and the imaginary part.

So this is called the magnitude or the absolute value of the complex number, the distance away from

the origin.

And then we also have the angle here, which is the angle of this line.

So you imagine drawing a line from the origin of the complex plane to the complex number and the angle

of that line relative to the positive real axis is the angle or the face of this complex number.

It's also sometimes called the argument of the complex number, although most people just use the term

phase and I will also use the term phase or angle.

So essentially we see that there is a lot of information that can be packed into this complex number

and that turns out to be important for the 48 transform.

You will learn later.

So I'm just giving you a little bit of a bit of an insight now.

A 48 coefficient is actually just a complex number, and the magnitude of that Fourier coefficient is

the amplitude which we can square to get power.

And the angle relative to the positive relaxes is going to be the phase of the 48 coefficient.

So more on that in later videos.

But I want to do now is talk a little bit about working with complex numbers, in particular multiplying

to complex numbers.

So imagine we have these two complex numbers, Z and W, and each one has a real part and an imaginary

part.

And note that the imaginary part of a complex number is just a regular number.

It's a real value number, but it's multiplying this AI characters, the imaginary operator.

So how do we multiply Z and W?

Well, it would be you know, it might be easy if we just multiplied eight times C and then B times

D, but it's slightly more involved than that, although it's still not too bad essentially to multiply

two complex numbers.

You multiply both the real and imaginary parts as if these were expressions that you had to multiply

out in algebra.

So to perform this multiplication, we have to distribute all of these individual multiplications.

So Z times W is eight times C and then we have eight times D I over here and then by times C here.

And then the final term is by times D.

I now notice that in this final term here we have AI squared and because I is the square root of minus

one, I times I or I squared is actually just minus one.

So this simplifies a little bit to minus B times D, so we still do end up with a complex number that

has a real part containing in this case eight times C and minus B times D and an imaginary part which

is the cross term.

So eight times the AI plus C times by.

And now I'd like to introduce you to another important concept in complex numbers, and that is something

called the complex conjugate.

So the complex conjugate is a complex number where you just flip the sign of the imaginary part.

So imagine this is our complex number A plus.

By then the complex conjugate is A minus B, I notice we haven't changed the magnitude.

So AI is the same, B is the same.

All we've done is flip the sign of the imaginary part.

Also notice that we're not changing the real part.

So this doesn't become minus a this just becomes minus B and this is not just about making the imaginary

part negative.

We actually just flip the sine, we multiply the sine by minus one.

So if we start off with a complex number that's A minus B, then it's complex, conjugate is A plus

B, so this is the algebraic interpretation of a complex conjugate.

There's also a geometric interpretation, which is essentially that if you have a complex number here,

the conjugate of that complex number is its mirror image flipped across the real axis.

So you can see we don't do anything with the real component that stays the same and the magnitude of

the imaginary component is the same.

So the distance away from the center is the same, but it's just flipped on the.

Y-axis, so we just flip it across the real axis here.

So what is the point of a complex conjugate?

Well, I'm going to show you one application of the complex conjugate in combination with multiplication

of complex numbers.

So here's a question.

If this is the complex number three for AI, so that's represented here and the grid spacing is not

equal on these two axes.

So you have to forgive me for that.

But anyway, uh, so this complex number is three four.

I the question is, what is the length of this line here?

What is the magnitude of this complex number?

How how far away is that complex number from the origin?

Now, you might already guess that the number the answer is five.

And how do we know that this answer is five?

Well, we know this from applying the Pythagorean theorem.

So remember, the Pythagorean theorem says that if we have a right triangle, then A squared plus B

squared equals C squared.

In other words, the length of the hypotenuse, which is what we can consider this line to be, is the

square root of three squared plus four squared, and that's nine plus sixteen, which is twenty five.

And the square root of that is five.

And of course there's also the special Pythagorean triples that you might have had to memorize in school.

So three, four or five was one of those triples.

OK, so so we just sort of know that because we guessed it.

But how can we figure this out?

How can we compute this using multiplication and the complex conjugate?

Let's just see what happens when we multiply Z by itself.

So we multiply this complex number by itself and we get three, four I times three for I and then you

can work out all the multiplication.

You end up with minus seven, plus twenty four.

I now that is definitely not the length of this line.

First of all, we already know that the length has to be five.

But even more importantly, this doesn't even make sense.

A length cannot be negative and it doesn't make sense for the length of a line to be an imaginary number.

All right.

Now let's try this again, using one by taking the complex conjugate of one of these Zs.

So I'm going to multiply Z by its complex conjugate, which is sometimes indicated using a bar on top

like this.

So let's see what happens with this multiplication.

Notice that we have the minus sign here.

So we have these terms of three times.

Three is nine and then we have 12.

I hear from three times minus four.

Let me see.

So this term here is actually this in our term here.

So four times three is twelve I and then we have three times minus four I is minus twelve I so that's

pretty interesting.

These two imaginary terms will cancel each other out and then we have an imaginary term here, but it's

squared so this becomes a minus I and that actually also cancels out this minus term.

So we end up with a result of 25 and of course the square root of 25 is five.

So it turns out that if you multiply a complex number by its conjugate, so Z times, Z conjugate,

you are going to get not exactly the length of the line, but the squared length of the line.

So the squared distance away from the origin.

And again, just to give you a little bit of foreshadowing to why I'm showing you this in this video,

when this is a complex number, then the complex number of times it's conjugate gives you the power

at that frequency.

So you will learn in a few videos that the result of the four transform is a series of Fourier coefficients,

one Fourier coefficient per frequency.

And when you multiply each complex valued Fourier coefficient by its complex conjugate, then you're

going to get the power at that frequency.

So that's just something to pin in the back of your brain and we'll get back to it later on.

What I want to do in the next video is introduce you to Euler's formula, which is also an important

way of working with complex numbers.