I hope you are pretty excited about this video, not only because I'm going to introduce you to Euler's

formula, which is also sometimes called Euler's notation, but you are going to learn what is generally

considered to be the single most elegant mathematical formula ever discovered in all of human civilization.

That sounds really, really important.

And I hope you're not going to be disappointed.

I don't think you will be.

So let's begin.

This is all about the number E..

This is an irrational number.

It starts off as two point seven one eight.

And it just keeps going and going and going without any patterns, possibly until the universe ends.

So what is this thing?

Well, we can generate a function that is E to the X for various values of X, and that function is

going to look something like this.

This is a pretty famous function E to the X.

It was independently discovered in many different areas of theoretical and applied mathematics.

So if you study physics or engineering or population biology or computational biology or finance or

navigation like navigating ships through the ocean, you are going to come across this quantity E to

the X. It's basically everywhere.

So this is a function that goes up to infinity.

It climbs up to infinity really, really fast.

And as it goes up to the rights of positive values of X for negative values of X, it's pretty interesting.

It gets arbitrarily close to zero, but it never actually gets to zero and it never becomes negative.

So E to the X is a strictly positive function.

You can see when X gets really large and negative.

So when you go off to the left, this function gets really, really tiny.

It never actually gets to zero.

And here you see it's pretty quickly going up to infinity.

Curiously, the derivative of E to the X is also eats the X.

It's one of those rare functions that is its own derivative.

So the speed with which or the rate at which this function climbs upward is the same thing as the function

value itself.

OK, so that is a little bit about e this exponential e the natural exponential.

And here we have a complex plane as a polar plot here where we have a cosine axis and a sign axis.

This is really similar to the complex plane that I showed in the previous video where I call this the

real axis and the imaginary axis.

In fact, real and cosine and imaginary and sine can often be used interchangeably on the complex plane

and particularly in the context of Euler's formula.

So cosine corresponds to the real axis sine corresponds to the imaginary axis.

So here is Euler's formula, sometimes called Euler's identity e to the IC equals cosine k plus I Simca.

So what does this mean?

What does Euler's formula mean?

So what this means is that if you pick a point on this unit circle, I'm calling this the unit circle

because it is exactly one unit.

The length of any point on this circle away from the origin is exactly one.

So any point on this unit circle, which you can also think about as a vector that goes from the origin

to that point on the unit circle, we can characterize this by the formula cosine K plus I sign K,

so here we have a line.

So this vector has an angle K and then it's coordinate.

Here is K, you know, cosine K and same K.

So that is essentially what Euler's formula is telling us, that we can represent this vector here or

this point here using the expression E to the IC where I is the imaginary operator.

K is this angle here relative to the the positive real axis or the cosine axis and E is the natural

exponential rate.

So this is called a unit vector and unit here refers to the length of one.

So this is a vector that has a length of one.

So how do we know that these two sides of the equation are the same?

Well, this comes from a Taylor expansion of cosine and sine and E to the IC.

And it turns out if you solve this Taylor expansion, you would find that adding up cosigns and signs

or the Taylor expansions for cosigns and signs and attaching the imaginary operator to all the sine

terms.

That turns out to be exactly the same thing as the Taylor expansion of E to the IC.

That proof is something.

You would learn in an advanced calculus course, I'm not going to discuss it here, but if you are curious

if you'd like to see that proof, it's I'm sure it's on Wikipedia and probably many other places on

the Internet.

But what I want to do now is talk a little bit about going back and forth between these two expressions

so the polar or Euler's formula and this rectangular or complex representation.

So here we have the numbers.

So if we look at an angle of zero, then we have E to the eyes zero.

That's this point here or this vector here.

And we say that E to the zero equals one plus zero.

Now, that's obvious.

Graphically, we just draw this out.

So you see its length one on the real axis or the cosine axis and its length zero.

So, you know, it doesn't move up or down at all on the sine axis or the imaginary axis.

And we can also intuit this algebraically.

We can also think about this algebraically.

And that's because any number to the power of zero is going to be equal to one.

So, yeah.

So this is just sort of also obvious from an algebraic perspective.

So let's try some other substitutions.

What if we look at an angle of pi over to that corresponds to a right angle going up here.

So 90 degree angle so e to the I pi over two equals and then we can just read this right off of the

graph.

So we have zero on the cosine axis or the real axis and one on the sine axis or the imaginary axis.

All right, let's try another one here.

We have E to the I pi.

So this would be the angle pi or 180 degrees relative to the positive real axis equals.

And then we just read this number right off the graph.

We have minus one and then zero on the imaginary axis.

Now this is a pretty interesting little expression.

We can actually rewrite this like this.

So I'm just getting rid of this term because it's zero anyway.

And then I'm moving the minus one to the left hand side of the equation.

So here we have E to the IP plus one equals zero.

And this equation right here, this is widely considered to be the single most elegant equation ever

discovered in all of human civilization.

That is a really bold statement.

That's a really big thing.

So why is this the most elegant equation?

Well, essentially, this equation contains all of the fundamentals of math.

From this equation here, you can pretty much build up all of mathematics.

Now, let me explain what I mean by that.

In this expression, in this equation, we have the two most important rational numbers, which are

one and minus one, the two most important irrational numbers, which are PI and E, we have the elementary

unit of the real axis, which is one.

We have the elementary unit of the imaginary axis, which is I.

And we also have all of the fundamental arithmetic operations.

We have addition, which is the same thing as a subtraction.

We have multiplication, which is basically the same thing as division, and we have exponentiation.

So Powers, which is also very similar to the logarithm.

And of course we have equality.

So essentially in this tiny, stupid little equation, well, I shouldn't call it stupid, but, you

know, in this seemingly innocuous equation, we have all of the fundamental aspects of math and nothing

extraneous.

We have nothing extra.

And that is why this is considered to be the most elegant mathematical equation in human civilization

that has absolutely nothing to do with signal processing or neural time series analysis.

But it is interesting to know if you didn't already know this, you now can participate in human civilization

just a tiny bit more.

All right.

Let's get back to the task at hand.

So we have discovered that this line here can be represented as this expression here.

So E to the IC equals cosine K plus I sign.

So the problem with this or the limitation of this formulation here is that we are limited to numbers

or points that are on this unit circle.

We can never get off the unit circle.

So that seems rather limiting.

What would we do if we wanted to represent this line, let's say, or this point out here?

It's not on the unit circle.

It still has a length and it still has an angle K and now basically it's impossible using this formula

exactly how I've written it here.

It is impossible to represent exactly this point.

However, it's not hard to change this formula.

Slightly to get this to work, all we have to do is multiply by some constant and this would be M for

magnitude.

I know you're thinking it's M for Mike because if you just read out all these letters, you end up with

Mike.

That's just a fortuitous coincidence.

So M is the magnitude.

It's the distance away from the origin.

And you can see here that, you know, we kind of already have the M here.

It's just implicit and it's set to one.

So here we have m e to the IC equals M cosine K plus I think and you just have to be mindful here that

this is m multiplying both of these terms.

So it's not just sometimes the cosine term.

You also have to multiply M by the sine term.

So this is just a small extension of the kind of canonical Euler's formula and that allows us to represent

any point anywhere on this complex plane, not only points that are on the unit circle.

Now, why do we care about this?

Why is this interesting?

Well, again, I'm going to give you a little bit of foreshadowing for a few videos from now where we

start really learning about the Fourier transform and the output of the four you transform, which is

this series of Fourier coefficients.

So then it turns out that we can use this notation to represent a Fourier coefficient.

This is a really compact and elegant way, informative way to represent a 48 coefficient because the

amplitude of the 48 coefficient is the parameter and the phase is this K parameter.

So once you have a bunch of these a series of these Fourier coefficients for lots of different frequencies,

then all we have to do is separate out the M's here.

And that gives us the amplitude spectrum.

And then you can also square this to get the power spectrum and we can pull out these cays and that

gives us the phase spectrum.

