 In this video, we are going to explore how to represent and work with complex numbers and Euler's formula in Matlab, and I would like to begin by showing you a few different equivalent methods for creating complex numbers in Matlab. So these four lines of code here all give exactly the same result. So we have four plus three. And here we have four plus three times one eye. And then we have four plus three times the square root of minus one. So here I'm using the built in operator eye for the imaginary operator, square root of minus one. Here we explicitly call or compute the square root of minus one. And here I'm using the function complex. And then the first input is the real part. And the second input is the imaginary part. I would say probably one of these two methods is the easiest way to write complex numbers. This method tends to be most useful if you are creating an entire matrix of complex numbers and let's say you already have the matrix of real numbers and the matrix of imaginary numbers, and you use this to combine them anyway. It doesn't matter. Any of these methods are all fine. So we can see that Z is this complex number four three AI and if we type whose you see that we have a complex number. OK, and then here I'm going to display that the real part is the real part of Z in the imaginary part is the imaginary part of Z. Uh, and here's an error, so this is a function image and we need to extract the imaginary part of Z. OK, let's see if that works. Yep, that looks good. So we say the real part is four and the imaginary part is three. So this is kind of just illustrating that we use the function real to extract the real part and the function image to extract the imaginary part of a complex number here. I would like to warn you about a possible programming error. This is a really easy programming error to make. So notice that if I just type I here, this is zero plus one. So this is the imaginary number. So Matlab recognizes just the variable I as an imaginary or the imaginary operator. However, I is also a perfectly good letter to use as a variable. So now I've set I to be the number two and you often see this in small for loop. So for example, you know, people often write for I equals one to 10, 19 and, you know, whatever. So I is often used as an indexing variable. And the problem with that is if you try to use if you tried to generate a complex number, now we get the number 10. This is definitely not a complex number we can type who's said stars. So now I'm using the asterisks so we can see both variables here. So we have Z. That's what we created earlier and that is a complex variable. And here we have Z, Z, and that is not a complex variable. It is simply the number ten. And why is it the number ten? Well, because we have four plus three times two, which is six. So this makes ten. So this is why I generally don't recommend why should they recommend against using the just the letter I on its own to indicate the imaginary operator. The risk of an honest programming mistake is too high. In contrast, if you use one eye, you can see that one eye is also the imaginary operator. So initially that's the same thing as I. The difference is that it is not possible to use one I as a variable notice we're getting an error message here. Matlab is already giving us an error if we try to assign the number to or anything else to what we're trying to create as a variable one, I matlab is going to give us an error. So therefore, using one eye or, you know, you can also use two or three a number, and then I is always going to work to give you the imaginary operator. All right. So that's about creating complex numbers in Matlab. When I'm going to do now is plot the complex number. So let's see in figure three, we want to plot this on the complex plane and we already get a warning here. It says imaginary parts are ignored. So let's see what this plot looks like. Well, we got a dot here at four comma four. But this is wrong because the variable Z is four three. So what is the problem here? Well, the problem here is that we're supposed to be plotting the real part by the imaginary part. So we need a in here and then this is now. Correct. So this is at four three. OK, so this doesn't really look like I mean, technically, this is correct. This plot is correct, but it doesn't look like what you might want it to look like. So I'm going to add a few lines here. And essentially that's just going to, you know, center the graph at the origin, draw these thick lines, draw a grid and so on, all this kind of stuff. OK, so here we see our complex number plotted on the complex plane. Now I'd like to discuss Euler's formula and also plotting numbers from Euler's formula. So here we have Euler's formula. You recognize this from the previous video? We have M times E to the I k, so this is I and here is K and now we set M to be four and K to be Pi over three. So let's see here. We want to extract the magnitude and the angle. Now there are several ways to extract the magnitude and the angle from a complex number like this. Let me show here. We can see this number is actually still represented as a rectangular format number. So I wrote it here as M e to the IRC, but Matlab is going to convert that into the rectangular representation. So we have the real part and the imaginary part. So how do we extract the magnitude? Well, you know, I mean, based on this code, it is pretty straightforward. We just type M like this. However, what we want to do is extract the user function to extract the magnitude of this complex number. So there are several ways that you can do it. You could have implemented this manually. For example, you could say the square root of comp NUM or let's say you want the real part of. Squared plus the imaginary part of Kump num squared, and let's see what that returns. So that tells us that we get an answer of four, which is great, that matches what we specified here. There's actually an easier way to do this as well, which is to use the function a B. S so abs for absolute value that extracts the magnitude and that should also be equal to four. And now the other way you could have done this is by multiplying this number by a complex conjugate. So here we have this complex number and then we have the conj. So the conjugate of the complex number and notice that the real part is the same and the imaginary part is the same magnitude. But the sign is flipped so we can multiply the complex number times its conjugate and that gives us 16. And remember, we need to take the square root of that to get the magnitude, the length. And so that gives us a number of four. OK, so and then here to extract the phase, we can use the function angle, so angle compe num and that gives us a value of one point zero four seven two. Now that may look like a strange number because here I specified PI over three. However, if you would say if you would evaluate pi over three, then that gives you the same number that we got here. So PI over three corresponds to around one radion. OK, and then we are going to make a plot of this. So let's see what that looks like. All right, so here we actually get two dots, and the reason why we get two dots is because I'm specifying a line in this plot, so I'm specifying a line that goes from zero on the x axis to the real part of the complex number. And on the y axis, we go from zero to the imaginary part. So that's going to give us a dot at the origin dot at zero zero and then at DOT at the point on the complex plane corresponding to the location of that complex number. And then again, this is just like with the previous cell where I'm just adding a few little extra things to make this plot look a little bit nicer. And then the final thing that I'm doing here is drawing a line using poller notation. So here I use the function poller and now depending on which version of Matlab you're using, you might get a warning message here that says Poller is not recommended. Use the function poller plot instead. So as a version 12 19 B, the function poller still works, although it's possible that in the future Matlab is going to totally depreciate this function and replace it with poller plot. There isn't really a big difference between poller and poller plot. The main difference is that with poller plot, you have some additional options. You have a little bit more flexibility on how to create and modify the plot and then the actual final thing that we're doing here. So I said this was the final thing, but really this is OK. Well, we still have even more final things on here. But anyway, what we're doing with these three lines of code here is drawing the unit circle. So the unit circle is going to be here. It's the circle that has a distance or radius of one from the origin. And the way that I'm doing that is by creating numbers that go from minus PI. The pie is going to be one hundred of them. So 100 linearly spaced numbers between minus Pi and plus Pi. And then I plot the cosine of X by the sign of X, and here I'm just setting the color to be light gray. So there's what that looks like. We see the unit circle here on this plot and then we get a title and that title, oops, that title has an error. Let's see, the error is unrecognized function or variable phase. So let's see what we're trying to do with this title. So it looks like we're trying to indicate the rectangular notation and also the polar notation. So the rectangular notation is a real part of the complex number, then the imaginary part of the complex number. Both of those are converted from a number into a string. And then we are plotting the magnitude and the phase. But let's see that fit. That variable is actually called p h. S, not fais spelled out. So that was an easy little bug to fix. OK, so here you go, we have this complex number here, it's rectangular coordinates, so the real and imaginary coordinates are two and three point four and the polar coordinates are for E to the eye, approximately one. So it's about four times E to the eye. So that's it for this video. I wanted to show you how to implement some of the concepts that you learned in the previous two videos in Matlab code. In the next video, I'm going to start talking about the DOT product, so I will see you then.