 In the previous video, you learned about the DOT product and now in this video, you are going to get to see how the DOT product gets implemented in Matlab. This is also going to be a really important video because we are going to see what happens when we compute the DOT product between a signal and a series of sine waves, a collection of Steinway's, and that is actually not formally the Fourier transform, but that's going to get us kind of close to the Fourier transform. All right. And as I've mentioned in previous videos, what I encourage you to do is pause the video if you haven't already and work through this section of code on your own, see if you can find any errors and fix them and, you know, answer the questions and just generally play around with the code. Here's a question down here. All right. So let's see here. We create two vectors and then we want to show two ways to create the DOT product in Matlab. So this is the the implementation of the formula that I showed in the beginning of the previous video. So we do Element Y's multiplication. That's what the DOT star is for. The DOT is for Element Y's multiplication of the two vectors. And then we sum all of those element Y's multiplications. And then there's also the function dot. So we input two vectors and we get the DOT product between them. So let's see here we have vector one and vector two and then DPE one product one is an error of matrix dimensions. Must agree. Let's see what's going on here. Initially, you know, you look at this, these two lines of code pretty quickly and it seems like they should be the same length, you know, are the same number of numbers because they start and stop at the same like physical locations on the screen. But it turns out that there's a little bit of a tricky, tricky coding here. You know, there's an extra space here and a minus sign here. And in fact, Vector V two is one element smaller than Vector V one. So therefore, it is not possible to compute the product between these two vectors. And we have two options here. You could either add a number to Vector V two or delete a number from Vector V one. Now, obviously, if these were real data, you would have to figure out what's going on, why there is a mismatch in real data. You can't just randomly add numbers or delete numbers. But, you know, this is an abstract example. And mostly this is just here to remind you that two vectors need to have the same length in order for the DOT product between them to be a valid operation. All right. So forty seven and no surprise here we also get 47. OK, so now let's see the DOT product with sine waves. So in this section, in this cell, we will create a signal. It's going to be a thing called a wavelets. You don't have to worry too much about what a wavelet is or what it means. That's not really important for this video. Obviously, wavelets are going to be super important in the next section of this course. For now. The point is we just want to create some time series signal and then we are going to compute the DOT product between that signal and a series of sine waves. So let's see here. We start off by creating the phase of the symbol signal and it seems a little bit backwards to specify the phase before even thinking about the signal. But you will see in a few moments why this parameter is all the way at the top. And before starting to run the code, I want to have a quick look and see where we're going with this, what what we do in this cell. So here's where we create the signal. It is a sine wave that's multiplied by a Gaussian. And then here we are setting up some sine wave frequencies. Let's see, here is a loop. We're looping over DP's, which is the same size as the sine wave frequencies. And then we're going to create a sine wave and compute the DOT product between the sine wave that we create here with this particular frequency and the signal which was created outside the loop. So this signal is not changing once we create it. All right. And then we're going to make a plot of the frequencies by the DOT products. All right. So let's go let's start running some of this code. All right. I would like to see what this thing looks like. I think it's always useful to do some planning. You should never shy away from plodding data and things that you're working with. All right. So it looks pretty cool. This is like you can see that there's a sign component in here and then there's the Gaussian and you can also see that Gaussian taper here. In fact, this looks a little bit like one of the time limited and also frequency limited signals that we simulated at the end of the. U.S.. All right, let's continue sine wave frequency and then it looks like here we're just setting up a figure. OK, so here we actually get our signal plotted on the top. And then on the bottom is where we are going to show the spectrum of DOT products. All right. So here's the loop over frequencies. The instruction for this line says create a real value sine wave. Note that the amplitude should be one and the phase should be zero. So to create a real value add sine wave, we do sign of two times pi times the time times and then we need a frequency in here. So what is the frequency? Frequency is sine Frex so sine Frex and then this is a whole vector and in each iteration of the loop we just want the F5 element of sine Frex. And then here we compute the DOT product between the sine wave and the signal normalized by the number of time points. So let's see, we want the DOT product between these sine W and the signal which was just called signal and then normalized by the number of time points. So there we just have to divide by the length of time. So this variable is just called time. All right. So divide by length of time. OK, so I'm going to run this, make sure we don't get any matlab errors. OK, we don't get any coding errors and then we're going to plot. So let's see what this looks like, OK? So that's pretty cool. It looks like this kind of mountain coming up here. And let's think about what this means. So we have DOT products plotted as a function of the frequency of the sine wave. So for a lot of these sine waves, the DOT product is zero. And that is actually a pretty sensible result because when you look at this sine wave, you can see it's created at five hertz. So this is a five hertz sine wave. It's not a pure sine wave because of this Gaussian taper. So it has some amplitude, non stationary in it. So then it is also not very surprising that the DOT product with a five hertz sine wave is the largest of this set and the DOT products get smaller as we get further away from five hertz. So that's pretty interesting. We have this spectrum of DOT products and the closer we are to five, the larger the magnitude of the DOT product. Now this is not the Fourier transform, but the Fourier transform is actually kind of conceptually similar to this. You will see in a few videos from now how the Fourier Transform works. And it's essentially pretty similar to what we're doing here. We create a bunch of Steinway's in that case, they're going to be complex sine waves and we compute the DOT product between each sine wave and the signal. All right. But we can worry about the mechanics of the four you transform in the future. Let's see subquestion try changing the theta parameter. What is the effect on the spectrum of DOT products? So what I'm actually going to do is put this in another figure. This is often useful. So now let's figure five. This is often useful because then we can see what happens to the resulting graphs when we change a particular parameter. So let's go for two PI over four. All right. So now let's see. Run all of this code and. Oh, that looks weird. The DOT products are zero everywhere. Let's see if something let's see what happened to the signal so you can actually see what happened to the signal. It shifted a little bit. So you can see this was with a phase of PI over four. This is with a phase of two. Pi over four I think. Yeah. Two power four or in other words PI over two. And now the DOT product spectrum completely, completely changed. It went from a spectrum that seems very interpretable, very sensible. And then all we did was make a tiny adjustment to the phase of this signal and all of a sudden this thing disappeared and we just get a totally flat spectrum. Let's see. Let's continue exploring. I will put this in figure six and then I'm going to change this to three PI over four and make a new plot here at whoa, this gets even weirder. So as we change the phase of the signal now, you can see when I'm scrolling across these three figures, the phase of this. So the signal is basically the same. It's just shifting a tiny bit to the left or to the right. But the DOT product spectrum when. From being something that we could have expected to, being something that was totally flat, where, you know, you might even think that you made a coding error somewhere and then it even gets weirder. We get a negative DOT product, even though the signal is hardly changed at all. So what is going on? Why is that the case? Well, there is a very good answer to this question. It will clear up all of your confusion, but you're not going to learn about it just yet. You have to keep watching a few more videos and then this will make sense.