In the beginning of this section of the course, I showed you this tree of knowledge that looks like

this, or maybe I should call this a mountain of knowledge.

And so so far, we have learned about sine waves.

We've learned about complex numbers and we've learned about the DOT product.

And what we're going to do now is start building on these elementary concepts to create more complicated

mathematical objects.

And that's going to work our way up towards the ultimate goal, which is to learn about Fourier coefficients.

And so in this video, we are going to discuss complex sine waves.

The good part is that there's nothing really terribly new in this video.

Essentially, what we are going to be doing is taking a sine wave and embedding them inside complex

numbers.

So let's have a look here.

We have the familiar Euler's formula E to the IC equals cosine K plus I think where E is the natural

exponential I is the imaginary operator.

So the square root of minus one, that's the same as this I hear.

And K is some angle.

So now what we are going to do is replace K with a longer expression.

So instead of K just being one number, just being an angle K is going to be this entire expression

two pi F.T. plus theta.

Now what's interesting about this extension is that here K is a single number, but here we are saying

that K is actually a vector of numbers.

It's a whole series of numbers because this T is a vector of time points.

So therefore we can just rewrite this as.

So this is CMW.

This is complex sine wave equals E to the I times all of this business to pi afte plus theta.

So you just have to be mindful that we are not putting the cosine or the sign into the exponent here.

It's just the innards, the inside of the function cosine and the inside of the function sine and that

goes here each of the AI instead of K two pi F.T. plus theta.

So what does this thing look like.

What does a complex sine wave look like?

Well, here we have a real part of a sine wave, so a cosine.

So this is Y equals cosine to PI.

And then here we have two parts of the complex sine wave.

So the cosine part and the sine part.

And I'm plotting them both on the same graph so you can see them.

So they're both sine waves and one is shifted from the other.

And how much are they shifted from each other?

You guessed it.

It's pi over two.

They are shifted by PI over two because that is the relationship between cosine and sine.

So cosine and sine are basically the same function just shifted by pi over two or ninety degrees.

So this is one way to look at a complex sine wave where we're taking a two dimensional axis and plotting

both the cosine parts of the real part and the imaginary part, the same part together overlaid on the

same plot.

However, this is not really the best way to plot a complex sine wave, and that's because a complex

sine wave is not two dimensional.

This is a two dimensional plot, but this object is complex.

Sine wave is actually a three dimensional object.

What are the three dimensions where we have time that's given by this vector t?

We have the real part, which is the cosine.

And then the third dimension is the imaginary part which is given by this sine.

So therefore the best way to conceptualize and to visualize a complex sine wave is something like this.

So we have a three dimensional plot.

So we have time on the X axis, the real part on the Y axis and the imaginary part on the Z axis.

So you can imagine this is like a slinky, like a corkscrew.

So it starts off here and then it's moving through time.

As time increases, this complex sine wave is spinning around and around.

So this is really the best way to visualize a complex sine wave.

And the final thing I would like to mention in this video is that typically when working with complex

sine waves, we leave the phase out.

So we set the phase implicitly to zero.

And so here I wrote to Pierret plus Theta, but you can see that if you just set Theta to be zero,

then this shortens to eat the eye to 50.

And that's also what I've written here and here and here and also here.