What we're going to do in this video is create a complex sine wave and then show two different ways

of visualizing that complex sine wave in two dimensions and in three dimensions.

So in the previous video, I showed you that kind of still plot.

So the plot wasn't moving around the plot of that slinky or corkscrew going through time.

And if you found that visualization a little bit difficult and I think this video will really help you

contextualize it.

All right.

So here, let's see.

So we are creating a sampling rate and a time vector.

The time vector will go from zero in steps of the discrimination up to almost two.

So two minus one sample point.

So here we specify a couple of parameters.

And we had a little Matlab warning here.

This underlined, this red underlined here.

And Matlab is trying to tell us that the value assigned to this variable appears to be unused, and

that's because it should be used in this line.

So what we should do in this line is create the complex sine wave.

So if you haven't already, then now would be a good opportunity for you to pause the video and then

complete this line of code before I do.

So let's see.

So this should be Euler's formula.

So we want to embed the the meat, the body of the sine wave into Euler's formula.

So the body of the sine wave was two pi, lft plus theta, and then we just want to put that inside

here.

So we need high times.

Normally it would be K, right.

So in the in the formula that I showed in the slide it would be E to the IC and then we just replace

K with two times pi times the frequency times time plus theta which I'm calling here variable phase.

Now I would like you to think about whether this line of code is correct, the way that I wrote it.

Well, obviously it's incorrect, otherwise I wouldn't have asked the question.

But the question is, what is wrong with this line of code?

So the problem here is that the imaginary operator is multiplying all of this stuff.

But then we have this face value here, this theta, which is actually not being multiplied by the AI.

So that is incorrect.

We need to multiply the imaginary operator by everything that goes inside the sine function.

So you have parentheses here, or if you don't like parentheses, for whatever reason, you could distribute

the imaginary operator and write it like this.

That is equivalent.

All right.

So let's run this code here and then we do plotting in two dimensions.

And then you see, this is also a plot that I showed in the slide, so you see the real part of the

sine wave and the imaginary part of the sine wave of the complex sine wave, both projected onto the

same axis here.

So this is a Tudi representation, but complex sine waves are actually three dimensional objects.

So we really should be viewing them in three dimensions.

So that's why we're using the plot three function here.

So let's see what this looks like.

All right.

So here you can already see it kind of looks like a corkscrew.

Here we have the time dimension, the real part to the real dimension and the imaginary dimension.

So now we should be able to rotate this around.

And somehow that doesn't quite look like what I would expect it to look like.

I was expecting this to be a 3D object, like a corkscrew or a slinky.

So what is the problem here?

Well, let's have a look and see what we're actually plotting.

So we have plot three time by.

So this is the x axis then the real axis.

We have the real part of the complex sine wave and then the Z axis.

We have again, the real part.

OK, so this shows the problem.

And by the way, you'll notice we didn't get any matlab errors.

So this is a good example of how code can be incorrect without producing any explicit error messages

or warning messages.

These are the most dangerous kinds of mistakes you can make in programming.

And the only way to catch and fix these mistakes is by careful visual inspection.

So let's see what happens now when we do this the right way.

All right.

This already looks better.

So this is pretty interesting.

We can, uh, let's say I'm left clicking with the mouse and moving the mouse around to be able to rotate

this around.

And that is rotated because I turn on the rotate 3D option.

So it's pretty interesting that if we look at the sine wave through the time and the real axis, then

we get just the imaginary part.

And this is a pure sine wave.

And then if we rotate this so that we're looking through the imaginary axis and we get the time and

the real axis, then we are looking at a pure cosine wave.

And by the way, if you're wondering why this cosine doesn't appear to be symmetric, why it doesn't

appear to be an even function here around time equals zero.

That's because we have a phase offset.

So if you want this to look like, you know, like a canonical sine wave, you could set the phase parameter

to be zero.

OK, and then it's also interesting to see what happens when we rotate this plot.

So we're looking through the time dimension and we're looking at the complex plane.

So the real part and the imaginary part.

And then you see that it's basically a perfect circle, if I can line it up exactly.

Perfectly, which I guess I kind of can't do.

But I think you get the idea.

So this is a slinky.

And if you just look at the complex plane, you see that time is spinning around.

So time is going forward and this circle keeps spinning around and around and around.

And it looks like it's it's going back on top of itself.

But that's actually not what's happening.

It's actually never this line never touches itself.

It's moving through time.

But when you're looking through the time dimension, then you only see it projected as a circle.