This video right here is one of the most important so far in this course, this video will motivate

the Fourier transform and introduce you to the Fourier transform by using complex products in this video.

We are going to follow up on the video.

That was a few videos ago about the DOT product with sine waves.

So if you haven't already gone through the video, the Matlab video DOT product and sine waves, then

I strongly recommend to go through that video first and then come back to this one.

OK, so what I'm first going to do is just illustrate the DOT product between two complex vectors.

So here I have two vectors.

Now, there's no trick in here.

These are this it's valid to compute the DOT product between these two vectors.

They have the same number of numbers.

And the main thing I want to show you is that the DOT product between them is going to be a complex

number.

So not so surprising, but I think it's useful to see it.

All right.

So what we want to do now is scroll back up to the video called the DOT product with sine waves.

And then essentially we are going to just adapt that code.

And in particular, we are going to change all the real value steinway's into complex valued sine waves.

And then instead of plotting just the DOT product or the real part of the DOT product, we want to plot

the magnitude of the DOT product.

OK, so let me scroll up and find that.

OK, so that was here and let's see.

So that was all of this code.

So I'm going to copy this and then we go back down here and paste.

All right.

So now what we need to do.

So let's see.

This part was fine.

Creating the signal was fine.

So we don't want to change the signal.

We leave the signal as a real value.

Morleigh Wavelet So the sine wave and the Gaussian, these frequencies can be the same.

That's all fine.

So here what we're going to do is create a complex value sine wave and I'm going to call this C sine

W, maybe a C S.W. so complex sine wave.

So the amplitude should be one and the phase should be zero.

So this is going to be E to the I times two pi times time, times F and F was sine Frex and then the

F ith element.

So here we have our complex valued sine wave.

And just to make sure that we're doing this correctly, I want to let's see, I'll run some of this

code here and then I'm going to set f I to be one run this line of code and let's see what we got.

OK, so we get a complex valued vector and now I'm going to plot time by let's part the real part,

complex sine wave and then let's plot the imaginary parts.

All right.

So that looks good on this line of code.

Seems correct.

Now I'm going to compute the DOT product between this complex sine wave and the signal.

So that's still the function dot.

And now it's complex sine wave and the signal.

And then we still want to normalize by the number of points.

It's actually not totally necessary, but we'll do it anyway because that's what the instructions say.

So divided by the length of signal.

And let's run this code, OK?

We don't get any errors, so that's good.

Let's just have a quick look at this DPS start products variable.

So it is a vector and it comprises complex numbers.

So it's all complex numbers.

And now we want to make a plot and now we just need to plot the magnitude of the DOT product.

So remember, the magnitude of the DOT product is the distance from the origin of the complex plane

to each point in the graph, the complex plane corresponding to the DOT product.

OK, so let's see what this looks like.

OK, let's see.

Just run all of this code again, OK?

Now so far this looks exactly the same way as the in the previous video.

Now you'll remember in the previous video, this dot product spectrum started looking wonky.

It started looking really weird when we changed the phase of the signal.

So I'm going to put this in a different figure to make sure we can compare them.

So let's call this figure five and then I'll make this two PI over four, which means PI over two.

All right.

And then you will remember that in that previous video where we used real valued sine waves, the entire

DOT product spectrum, when this had a phase of pi over to this entire spectrum was flat.

So let's see what happens now, huh?

It looks like it's the same.

So now I'm going to go back to this other figure.

Now you can see that we didn't make any mistakes because the signal is still changing.

So we still have this phase offset in the signal.

But now the DOT product is totally unchanged, or at least the magnitude of the DOT product is exactly

the same.

So let's try this again for another face value.

So let's put this in figure six and then I'm going to set this to be three fourths pi.

So three times Pi over four.

And you will also remember from the previous video that that gave us a negative spectrum of products.

So there was zero and then it went negative and then it went back to being positive.

So drum roll, little drum roll and then, oh, man, it's exactly the same thing all over again.

That is so boring that it's really exciting and super interesting.

So you can see that when we used real valued Steinway's, we have the phase relationship between the

signals and the DOT product spectrum.

So with real valued Steinway's, the spectrum of DOT products was dependent on the phase of the signal.

And now when we use complex value dot products, the phase doesn't matter.

We change the face the phase of the signal and that has no effect on the resulting complex value that

products, I should say, the magnitude of the DOT products.

So we can come back to this question.

Is the DOT product spectrum still dependent on the phase of the signal?

The answer is no.

I'm even going to write this down.

The answer is a resounding no.

And then the question is, why is this the case?

So I can write.

But why?

Why is the DOT product spectrum very sensitive to the phase of the signal when we use real value sideways?

And why is the magnitude of the DOT product completely robust to the phase of the signal when we use

complex valued sideways?

I'm going to answer that question or we are going to discover the answer to that question together in

this cell here.

This is a movie showing why complex sine waves are phase invariant.

So let's see.

What we need to do is, uh, let me first.

OK, so let's see how much of this we can run without going through a loop.

Um, OK.

Well, I think what I'll do is I'll just run all this code.

So essentially all you need you don't need to change anything in this code.

It's all set up.

So let me let's see.

I'll close all these figures here and I'll walk you through what's going to happen inside this loop.

So first of all, all of this stuff is just setting up the figure a little bit.

All of the action is happening inside this loop.

So we are looping over phases.

Let's see what that variable is.

That is a vector of phases that goes from zero to seven pi over two and one hundred steps.

And here you can see we're creating a complex value sine wave and a real value sine wave.

So then we're looping over all those phases.

We create a signal where the signal is just like what we've been using previously and also in that previous

video.

But inside this loop, we change the phase, OK?

And then we compute the complex value dot product and the real value dot product.

You can see that these two lines are almost exactly the same, except for the complex sine wave versus

the real sine wave.

So and then we are plotting here the signal and the real part of the or the real the real value is sine

wave.

And then in a separate subplot, we're going to plot the complex value sine wave and the real value

sine wave.

OK, so let me run all of this code and then you'll see the animation coming up.

And I'll play this animation a couple of times so we can talk about it.

So you see this red line.

This is a complex sine wave are the real part of the sine wave that's kind of just there for reference.

What you see is that the signal is moving its phase.

So the phase of the signal is changing over time.

That's what you see, this blue line.

It looks like it's shifting to the left.

And that is happening because we are changing the face value that you can see here.

And then don't worry, I will run this movie again so we can talk about it here in this plot, you are

seeing the complex DOT product.

So this is the DOT product between the complex.

Sine wave and the signal, and here you see the dot product of the real valued sine wave and the signal.

Now this thing is going to be spinning around in a circle because it's a complex number.

And here this can only go back and forth because this is a real value dot product.

So it's only one dimensional.

We just have the real axis.

OK, so now let's run this code again.

And what you can see is this complex dot product is spinning around the origin.

But notice, the important thing is that although it's moving around, its angle is changing.

But the distance away from the origin is always the same.

It's never changing its distance away from the origin that's constant as it's spinning around.

Let me run this again.

On the other hand, this real value dot product is just going back and forth.

It's like oscillating back and forth on the real axis.

It cannot go up and down.

Now, what's also interesting is that you can see that this real valued DOT product is just the projection

of this complex DOT product onto the real axis.

So I'm going to run this again.

And I would like you to pay attention to the relationship between where this red dot is spinning around

on the real axis and where this thing is on the real axis.

So it's as if you would project this down onto the real axis or projected up onto the real axis.

You can see that that's going to go back and forth.

And each time that this complex DOT product crosses here, we get a value of zero over here on the real

axis.

All right.

It's a lot of fun, isn't it, watching this video.

I'm going to run it once more.

And here is the big picture.

The big picture is that a complex valued DOT product contains both the face and the magnitude and the

real value DOT product doesn't.

So therefore, the complex value dot product is robust to the face.

It can ignore the exact face relationship between the signal and the complex sine waves, whereas the

real value dot product is phase dependent.

So we get this awkward situation where the DOT product goes to zero.

Now the reason why that's happening is that a complex sine wave contains both a cosine and a sign.

And when you have both a cosine and a sign, you can cover all of the possible phase relationships between

any signal and a pair of sine wave.

So cosine and sine pair.

So essentially what this DOT product is telling you is that sometimes this signal, this blue line here,

sometimes it looks more like a sine wave and less like a cosine wave, and sometimes it looks more like

a cosine wave and less like a sine wave.

And we don't get that from the real value dot product.

The real value dot product is sign dependent and it's just going back and forth like this.

So that is an important concept in the Fourier transform.

And now let me just say before we get to the next video, because the next couple of videos is going

to be introducing you to the actual Fourier transform.

So the last thing I want to say is that this loop here, what we are doing here, creating complex sine

waves and computing the DOT product between that complex sine wave and the signal, adding some normalization

factors.

This is almost exactly what the Fourier transform is doing.

So if this part is clear, then you are going to get the Fourier transform.

No problem.

So I hope you are excited to learn about the Fourier transform.

You now know everything you need to know.

All you need to do is watch the next video.

