In this video, I'm going to walk you through the Matlab code corresponding to the discrete time Fourier

transform.

I hope that this video will help you understand the concepts, the theory that I discussed in the previous

video.

So let's begin by creating a signal that we can then apply the Fourier transform to and generating our

own signals.

Here is a great way to explore the code for the area transform because we see exactly what the ground

truth is.

So we are going to be generating a signal that comprises five sound waves, some together, and this

first sine wave has three hertz and amplitude of five and so on.

So we should be able to reconstruct from the plot these parameters.

And if we do, then we know that we've gotten the right answer.

All right.

So let's see.

I will just run all of this code here and let's plot this signal to make sure that it looks reasonable.

So plot we have a vector called time and then signal, OK?

And this looks pretty reasonable.

And we've created signals that look like this previously in this course.

All right.

So here we have the Fourier transform in a loop.

So we are creating a couple of variables up here.

This one is called Fourier Time.

This is going to be the time vector that's used to create the sine wave.

So notice that this is actually different from this time vector here, this time vector for the signal.

You can see it goes from minus one to plus one in steps of the sampling rate.

In contrast, this time vector here that's going to go inside the 48 transform goes from zero to N where

N is the number of time points.

Let's see.

Hmm.

Actually we don't even define N here.

So in fact, this line is already going to give us an error.

Let's see.

So we need to say and equals the length of the signal.

So this variable time for you as time goes from zero to nd minus one divided by.

So that means that this time vector is going to go basically from zero to one, almost one some, you

know, a tiny number that's slightly less than one.

So that is already an important thing to understand about the Fourier transform that when we create

these sine waves we don't use the same time vector that's used for the signal.

Instead, we used a normalized time vector.

It always goes from zero to one point one one fraction just below one.

So essentially it goes from zero to one here.

I specify the Nyquist frequency.

I'm going to have more to say about the Nyquist frequency in a later video, but it is simply half of

the sampling rate.

So sampling rate divided by two is the Nykvist.

Oh, and here we create.

OK, so this is just this was.

Yes.

Just a bit out of order.

I think this is supposed to go up here and then it makes more sense.

All right.

So let's see.

So we have this and then we are initializing a vector of Fourier coefficients.

Now notice that this is the same size as the signal.

So we are going to get one Fourier coefficient for every well, it's not every time point, it's every

frequency.

And the number of frequencies is the same as the number of time points.

That might sound a little strange, but I mentioned it in the previous video and I'm going to justify

that feature of the Fourier transform in a few videos from now.

So now we get into the Fourier transform, so we loop over frequencies and we have the same number of

frequencies as we have time point.

So we are also looping over PN and what do we do inside this loop?

Inside this for loop.

So we do two things.

We have to create a complex value sine wave for this frequency and then we compute the DOT product between

that sine wave and the signal.

So the complex value sine wave is e to the I times K where K is the like the innards of the sine wave

function.

So two times pi times time.

And now this is for a time this variable for eight time times the frequency.

And remember I mentioned in the video in the last video that the frequency corresponds to the looping

index minus one.

So that's what we have here.

So E to the AI two pi times F times the time vector and again this is the normalized time vector.

It's not the time vector that's used to create the signal.

All right.

And then so that's the first step at each frequency.

And then we compute the DOT product between Fourier sign and the signal.

OK, and believe it or not, that is it.

That is the entire Fourier transform done inside this loop.

It's essentially four lines of code, two of which are, you know, just defining the loop.

So it's really just these two lines of code.

OK, so then we have a normalization factor where we are dividing by NP.

Now, I'm going to also talk about this normalization factor.

There's a couple of normalization factors here.

I'm going to talk more about this in a later video.

But basically the idea of why we need to divide by NT is that here this DOT product involves summing

up a lot of numbers.

So we are doing a lot of Element Y's multiplication and some so a lot of addition.

And then we want to divide by NT to prevent this from just getting larger and larger as the signal gets

longer and longer.

So we divide by and it's basically like you can think of this as you know, this is something over a

lot of numbers and then we divide by NT to get the average.

OK, so these frequencies here, which are defined by the looping index minus one, these are normalized

frequency units.

They are not in units of Hertz, but we want to interpret the output of the 48 transform in terms of

frequencies in units of Hertz.

And that's because that's how we created our signal and Hertz.

So we want to be able to compare what's happening in the signal with this outcome here.

So the way that we do that is by defining linearly space numbers from zero hertz up to the Nyquist frequency,

which is one half of the sampling rate, and the number of steps that are linearly spaced between zero

and Nykvist is ln over two plus one and again.

And is the.

A number of time points in the signal.

Now, this may seem like a strange way of setting up or defining the frequencies and hurts, but I'm

going to explain this and I'm going to say why this is the right thing to do in a later video.

So you can see I'm mentioning this quite often, that you are going to be learning more of these details

in later videos.

It might seem a little frustrating, but I think it's important to first understand the basic mechanics

of the four year transform and then you can start learning about some of the important but more fine

grained details.

So this is the really important stuff here, the fact that we are looping over time points and I can

convert it to frequencies creating complex sine wave and then computing the DOT product with the signal.

That is a really important point.

This business about normalization and defining the frequencies, that is important, but it comes up

later.

OK, let's see.

And I actually forgot that there's a factor of a minus sign in here.

So this is actually minus eye times to PI F.T. And you can probably guess what's the next thing I'm

going to say, which is that I will talk more about this minus sign in a later video.

OK, let's see.

So we have to now define this vector of frequencies and hertz.

So now this is these numbers that you're seeing.

These are actually Hertz, OK?

And then we can plot let's see here.

I'm just plotting one example, sine wave from the 48 transform.

So it's a complex value sine wave.

And I'm just plotting the real part.

This is just to illustrate to you the fact that this code really is generating a complex value sine

wave.

So here we're plotting the real part of that and then we're plotting the signal over here.

So we've already looked at that.

But here you see the signal again.

And then here we are plotting the amplitude spectrum from the Fourier transform.

So you can see we have the Fourier coefficients and then I'm taking the magnitude of those Fourier coefficients.

And here just to show you what these four coefficients look like, you can see that they are just complex

numbers, just like the complex numbers that you've already seen in the past, several videos.

So let's see.

I also see this is an error here.

This should say amplitude and this can say amplitude.

Now, the difference between amplitude and power is that power is amplitude squared.

So if we were to take these numbers, the magnitude of the 48 coefficients and then square them, that

would give us power.

But the way we I've written it here, it's actually giving us amplitude.

So you also see this funny multiplication by two here.

That's another one of these normalization factors similar to this division by.

So let's see, let's plot this.

And here we see the Fourier transform or the amplitude spectrum from the eight transform.

Now, I'm going to zoom in to this plot in a moment, and we're going to check with our simulated data

to make sure that this outcome matches our ground truth data.

But first, I want to show you the fast forward transform.

So the FFE.

Now, the thing is that this is a valid way to implement the Fourier transform, but it's really slow.

I mean, it seems fast when I ran it now, but and if you have a long signal, which you do in practice,

of course, for long signals, this can take a really, really, really unacceptably long period of

time.

I mean, like, you know, this might take days to run, whereas the FFE will take a few seconds to

run.

So in practice, you actually never want to use the Fourier transform in the loop the way that you see

it here.

I think that this is important for educational purposes, for you to learn about the four year transform,

to see it in a loop.

But in practice, you never actually use a loop to implement the Fourier transform.

You always implement the fast Fauria transform.

So let's run this code and unrecognized.

OK, so I think whoever wrote this code has a like a, you know, 12 year old sense of humor.

This is the fast Fourier transform the function to compute the fast for a transform is the F.T. There's

no A's or R's in here.

Let's see.

So what I'm doing here is plotting the outcome of the or the output of the FFT function on top of what

we computed above.

So you can see this line looks pretty similar to what I showed above.

Now, if these are really identical, if the Fast 48 transform is really identical to the slow loop

based Fourier transform, we should see that those two outputs are identical, they are overlapping

and clearly they're not.

So what's going on here?

Well, you can see that the red dots are actually really, really large.

They have these really large amplitudes.

So what's going on here is that we didn't divide the Fourier coefficients from the FFE by PN, so we

need to do that.

So I'm going to say divided by NP and now I'm not going to run this again because the plot is already

scaled up here.

So I'm going to run this code again to redraw this plot.

So now we have these blue lines.

This is from the Loop Fourier Transform and now.

We see that the result of the fast ferry transform is the same as the result of our slow loop based

Fourier transform.

And now what I'd like to do is consult back these parameters that we specified.

So this was the ground truth data and we can compare this against our results from our analysis.

So we see that at three hertz we have a amplitude of five and five hertz.

We get an amplitude of 10 that was here.

And you can go through these and you'll see that they match pretty nicely what we have specified here.

Now, you might already notice, you might have noticed that the amplitude actually doesn't match.

Exactly, exactly.

The amplitude here is five point zero one five, whereas here it is five.

And here, for example, at ten hertz, it's fourteen point nine nine.

And in fact, at ten hertz, it should really be 15.

So why is there this really small discrepancy between the outcome of the Fourier transform and what

we specified here?

Well, it's a little bit tricky, but it essentially has to do with the fact that we don't have an exact

integer number of frequencies that go into this time vector.

And that actually creates some non-state scenarios.

It creates a really tiny edge and that leads to a really tiny edge artifact.

The effects of edges and non-state scenarios is going to be a major topic at the end of this section

of the course.

In fact, that's going to be the major motivation for the next section, which is going to be all about

time frequency analysis.

So I hope you enjoyed this video.

I hope you have discovered that the Fourier transform is not this mind bogglingly intensely complex

operation.

It's in fact pretty straightforward.

However, there are more features to the 48 transform that we need to discuss and illustrate, both

in theory, in the slides and in code here.

So you have more to look forward to.

