So you know by now that the Fourier coefficients, which are the output of the Fourier transform, are

just complex numbers.

Each one is the complex product between the signal and a complex valued sine wave at a particular frequency.

And so in this video, what we are going to do is explore these Fourier coefficients a little bit more

and essentially just to, you know, kind of spend some time working with them.

And in particular, I'm going to show you that the four coefficients are difficult to interpret just

by looking at them.

Instead, by visualizing the four coefficients on the complex plane, we are going to have a better

understanding of the four coefficients and how to interpret them.

So let's see what we're doing here.

So we create a.

So we're going to create three signals.

These are three Steinway's.

You can see that they're cosine waves.

So it's just the real part.

And they're all defined as some amplitude value with different amplitudes times the cosine of two pi

afte that's common across all of them.

And then we have a three different phase parameters.

So and they're all at six hertz.

So let's see, there is those frequencies and then we want to compute the Fourier coefficients using

the FFT.

So this is missing here, obviously, if you like, and I encourage you to do this, you can pause the

video and go through all of this code here.

So this part isn't so difficult.

We just need to copy and paste paste and then be super careful that we are replacing the variables as

appropriate.

So here is the Fourier coefficients of signal one, signal two and signal three.

Let's see here.

I define the vector of frequencies in Hertz to help us interpret these Fourier coefficients.

As I mentioned in the previous video, these frequencies and Hertz go from zero to Nykvist, which is

half the sampling rate in MN.

So it's n divided by two plus one steps and I will talk more about what that means, where that number

comes from in the later video.

All right.

Here we want to define that or find the frequency of our sine waves.

So the thing is that these vectors of Fourier coefficients, there's a thousand of these things, but

we only have, uh, you know, we're only interested in one particular frequency.

We are interested and six hertz.

So what we want to do here is find where is six hertz in this vector of frequencies.

Now, we can just look through this manually and and say, OK, here is six.

So that's the seventh index because we start at zero, the zero frequency.

So in this, you know, simple example, we don't really need some fancy line of code.

We can just look at it and pick out the right answer.

However, it's also useful to have a method that is more scalable for larger vectors.

Or, you know, if we don't have the time or capability to look through the vector for each time, we

want to pick out a particular frequency.

OK, so that's what I'm doing with this function decirte.

And so what we are going to do here is search through this vector of frequencies and find the index

that is as close as possible to this variable.

Freck so in this case, that's going to tell us seven, which we already knew the answer to.

All right.

And then here we are just displaying some information out into the command.

So this is telling us that the six Hertz Fourier coefficients for sine wave water signal one, two and

three is this, this and this.

So how do we make sense of this, given the two parameters that we specified here, three to one for

the amplitudes and zero, PI over six and PI over three for these phases.

So this is what I was referring to here when I talked about this in the beginning of the video.

It's not really possible to just look at these numbers and figure out what these parameters were.

All right.

So therefore, we need to work with these Fourier coefficients a little bit more.

And we are going to start this by plotting these complex numbers in a polar plot or a complex plane

with a polar plot in it.

So that's what we do here.

I'm using the function polar plot.

And to use this function, we specify the angle and the magnitude or the radius of the theta and the

radius.

So let's see, I'll plot these.

And we will have a look, so here you see, and actually this is let me run this code and yet this is

good.

So this code just makes the lines thicker.

And then this also puts a legend on the line.

So here we see the actual Fourier coefficients are, in fact, just points.

At the end of these lines.

I'm showing them as lines here for convenience.

So this is the Fourier coefficient for sine wave one, sine wave two and sine wave three.

And now when you look at this, this is the radial axis.

We can see that sine wave three has a radial extension of one and then two and then three.

And that's good.

That's exactly what we specified in the signal when we were creating the signals here.

And then we can also see these phase values here.

So this is PI over three and this is PI over six.

And of course, this is zero.

This is zero pi.

So I think this is pretty neat.

This is a pretty illuminating way to visualize the Fourier coefficients, and this tells us how to map

the parameters of the sine wave.

So the amplitude and the phase onto these complex valued Fourier coefficients in a complex plane or

in this case and a polar plot.

All right.

So this is great for visualization.

What I want to do now is quantify this information.

So we want to extract the power and phase from the complex valued Fourier coefficients.

In this case, we're going to start by using the Pythagorean theorem.

So how do we do this?

How do we get the amplitude out of the Fourier coefficients?

In fact, we've seen this in a previous video I so there's a few videos ago and the hint is that we

use the functions real and imagined.

So what we want to do is extract the real part of the coefficient and then square it and the imaginary

part and square that and then take the square root of that sum this term here.

So let's see, we don't need all of the four coefficients.

We only want the one corresponding to six hertz.

I think actually.

What are we going to do with these?

Uh, no, I'm wrong.

So we want all of the amplitude.

So this is going to be I guess I could have also seen that in this code here.

So this is the real part of F CofS one

plus the imaginary part of F CofS one.

And then we take the square root of that.

And that gives us amplitude.

And if you want power, then you have to square amplitude, which would mean just getting rid of this

square root term here.

OK, let's see, so this was for the first signal, then we can copy and paste for the second and third

signals, always being super mindful to change the variable names where appropriate.

This is one of my most commonly made matlab or programming in general mistakes where I will copy and

paste code and forget to change the variable names.

All right, so this is perfectly valid, however it is, we need to do an element wise powers here,

not matrixx powers.

So this code here is perfectly valid.

There's nothing wrong with it.

But you can see it's quite a lot to type out.

So it's a lot easier just to use the Matlab function abs like this.

So these three lines of code produce the same result, exactly the same result as these three lines

of code.

So of course in general you should prefer these three lines of code.

Yet another possibility is to multiply the Fourier coefficients by their complex conjugate.

And now I would like to ask you a question.

The question is, is this line going to give the same result as this line and this line?

Now, I've already told you that these two lines are the same.

So the question is whether this line will also be the same.

The answer is no.

And the reason is that we saw in the video on complex numbers and multiplying complex numbers by their

conjugate that in fact, this is going to compute the length of this line squared.

So this would be the power.

This would give us the power.

If you actually want this to be the amplitude, you would have to take the square root of this term

like this.

And now this is good.

Now, this line and this line and this line, I'll give you exactly the same results.

So in general, I typically use this just because it's, you know, it's the least amount of typing

is easiest to use.

In fact, if you do some computation time tests, you will find that particularly for computing power

where you don't need the square root.

This expression here is actually the fastest.

This takes the least amount of computation time.

So maybe if you have really a lot of matrices to compute, a lot of Fourier transforms the compute you

can use this method to to compute power.

I generally prefer this method.

It's not like this is really slow.

It's you know, it's a relatively small add speed advantage that you get here.

OK, let's see.

So we still only need to compute one of these sets and then I'm going to plot the.

Amplitude spectra, which you see here, and I'm zooming into three to nine hertz only because the rest

of the spectrum is zero.

So these are the three frequencies that we care about.

And you can see this is one, two and three, and that matches our simulation.

All right.

And now for the phase.

So first I'm going to extract the phase is using the function a 10 to.

So remember, in a few videos ago, I talked about extracting the phase value from complex numbers from,

in this case, complex Fourier coefficients.

So what we do is we start from the computation that the tangent of the phase angle is equivalent to

the ratio of the imaginary part to the real part.

So therefore, for getting the angle itself, we have to invert the tangent and that gives us the arc

tangent.

So we want the 810 to of the imaginary part of F CofS.

That's the first input.

And then the second input is the real part of the Fourier coefficients, which is F course one.

Let's see.

Let's make sure that's right.

Yep.

OK, and then I'm not going to do these other two lines here.

It's the same thing.

You just have to replace one with two.

And then here similar to the previous cell.

In practice, when you're doing this, you know, there's nothing wrong with extracting the phases using

this way.

But it's an awful lot of writing and it's a lot of coding here.

You can just use the function angle and this line and this line are equivalent.

They will give you the same answer.

OK, and then we plot the phase spectrum and that you see down here now, the power, the amplitude

spectrum looked really easy to interpret.

These were all zero values everywhere except for this one frequency at six hertz, which is where we

simulated the sine wave.

But here, this looks kind of weird.

This is probably not what you expected.

Let's start by having a look at these frequencies here where we know we simulated the signal.

So we have a value of this is basically zero.

It says minus eight times.

So then it says this E minus 16, and that means it's ten to the minus sixteen.

So this is a tiny, tiny number.

It's basically zero plus computer rounding error.

So this is zero.

And let me see if I have a legend that I don't have a legend.

But let me put in a legend real quick.

So legend, we have signed one and then signed two and then signed three.

OK, so here we have the legend.

And now let me go up to the parameters that we specified here.

So we see that the phase of sign one is zero and that we can read off of the graph again, this wide

number here.

That's why Kornet is zero plus computer rounding error.

And then for sign two, which is the blue line in the plot, we have PI over six.

And let's see, that has a y axis value of point five, two, three, six.

Let's see what pi divided by six is point five, two, three, six.

So that matches and then we get one point zero four seven and you will not be surprised to see that

pi over three is one point zero four seven.

All right.

So these frequencies match.

What in the world is going on with these other frequencies?

Here to understand why these phases are are weird and unexpected, I'm actually going to go back and

re plot this.

Let's say I'll put this in a different plot that should have probably been in a different plot in the

first place.

So let's see.

I will do this.

So this was the plot of the Fourier coefficients that I had a few moments ago.

Now notice or remember that the angle of a Fourier coefficient, the phase of the four coefficient is

the angle relative to the positive real axis is the angle of this line.

But now here's a question.

What is the angle of a line that has no length?

If we just have a point at the center with a magnitude of zero, a length of zero?

What is the angle of that line?

Well, the answer is that there is no angle.

The angle is undefined when the length of the line is zero.

And that is what's happening in all of these other Fourier coefficients and all these other frequencies.

You can see that the Y axis coordinate is basically zero plus some computer rounding error.

It's all ten to the minus 16, ten to the minus sixteen.

Maybe there might be.

These are all basically zero.

So what's happening here is that these fais values are totally uninterpretable.

They are not valid, they are not interpretable values, but the computer is forced to give some output.

So it's basically just going to guess this has to do with just computer precision and these tiny, tiny

little rounding errors.

This is an important thing to understand about the Fourier transform.

And I'm going to have an entire video about it that the title of that video is called Estimation Errors

and Fourier Coefficients.

That's later on in this section of the course.

But I think it's interesting to already see this in action.

Nonetheless, the main point of this video was to explore Fourier coefficients in more detail as complex

numbers and extracting and graphing the properties of those complex numbers, in particular the amplitude,

which is basically the same thing as power and the phase values.