I'm going to start this video by showing you that the raw Fourier coefficient, so the output of the

FFE function has units that are basically uninterpretable and that will lead to a discussion of two

scaling factors to normalization factors that you can apply to the Fourier coefficients in order to

interpret or put the coefficients back into the units of the original data.

So here is a few lines of Matlab code.

Essentially, I'm just taking the sign of some numbers.

It doesn't even matter at zero to 12 PI, but you can see that the amplitude of this sine wave is one,

right?

I'm not multiplying by any amplitude parameter, which means that by default it's set to one.

Then I take the field and the output of the FFE function is the series of Fourier coefficients which

I then use as input into the ABS function.

And that function will extract the magnitude, which is the distance from the origin of each Fourier

coefficient.

And that tells us the amplitude.

And then I'm just making a bar plot of it and then here I'm just setting the Y-axis limit.

OK, so here you see what that bar looks like.

Now we know for sure we simulated this signal.

We made up these data.

The amplitude has to be one.

Why is the amplitude, you know, whatever this value is, it's a little bit less than one hundred and

fifty.

Or maybe it's exactly one hundred and fifty, but it's clearly not one.

So what is going on here?

Why does this value here not match the original signal that I created?

I know what the ground truth is.

There are two reasons for this.

One is one has to do with the the loop implemented or you can see it in the loop implementation of the

Fourier transform.

So what we're doing here is computing the DOT product between the complex sine wave at some frequency

and the signal.

And this is so the element Y's multiplication and then some.

And now if you remember a few videos ago, I talked about the zero hertz frequency and what that means.

So when we have the zero hertz frequency, the sine wave is just a vector of all ones.

And then essentially we're just summing up all of the signal elements so you can see that as the signal

gets longer and longer and longer, the Fauria coefficient for the zero hertz frequency is going to

get larger and larger and larger, of course, because we are just coming together more and more numbers.

So if we want to get the average value of the signal, we have to divide.

And what do we have to divide by?

Well, obviously we divide by the number of data points in the signal that gives us the average.

So the same concept applies for every frequency.

I think it's just easiest to to understand, to internalize when thinking about the zero hertz frequency.

So this is one of the two normalization factors for a for the four year coefficients.

You're computing a lot of sums here.

So then we want to divide by NP, and that is like an average that's basically taking the average of

the relationship between the complex sine wave and the signal.

And now let's go back here and look at this.

So the number of points in this Time series here is 300.

So if we were to divide this by 300, so if we would say, you know, out here, divide by 300, that

would bring this from one hundred and fifty down to zero point five.

It would bring us down to one half.

And now that is still not exactly the right answer.

The right answer should be one, because that's what we simulated here.

So why do we get an answer of one half when we should be getting one?

Well, I hope that you can already see where this is going.

I hope you can already guess what is going to be the second of two normalization factors for the Fourier

coefficient.

And that is to multiply by two, because the amplitude gets split between the positive frequencies and

the negative frequencies so we can double the positive frequencies and then ignore the negative frequencies.

Now, just to be clear, the doubling is valid because for a real valued input signal the negative frequencies,

mirror the positive frequencies.

If you are working with complex valued signals, then you don't actually double the positive frequencies.

What you're really technically doing is folding this whole thing.

You know, imagine creasing this page over here along the NICUs frequency and then folding all of these

negative frequencies so they some on top of the positive frequencies.

That's really what you have to do.

You have to add the negative frequencies onto the positive frequencies, but for a real value signal,

these two are mirrors.

So in practice, it's a lot easier just to ignore the negative frequencies and double the positive frequencies.

OK, so there you go.

So to recover the accurate units from the Fourier transform, for example, they might be mycar volts

if that's what your signal was originally recorded in.

You have to divide the Fourier coefficients by PN and then you have to sum together all of the negative

and corresponding positive frequency coefficients.

And in practice, that really just means that you ignore the negative frequencies and double the positive

frequency coefficients.

Now let me make two important notes here.

One important note is that zero also the Nyquist, but we are particularly concerned with the zero hertz

frequency is not doubled.

It's not doubled because zero has no corresponding negative frequency.

You can also see that here from thinking about this sine wave being a vector of all ones when the frequency

is zero.

So we get all ones here and then we add up, we sum up all of these signal elements divide by PN and

that already gives us the average.

If you divide that average by two, that's no longer the average.

That's going to be half of the average.

So the zero hertz component does not get doubled.

Only the positive frequencies excluding zero get doubled.

Technically, that holds for Nykvist as well.

But in practice, you know, people can often in in practical data analysis, people will interpret

the zero hertz component.

But people basically never go up to interpreting the NICUs frequency in practical data analysis.

There is a second point that I want to note here, which is equally important, and that is that these

two scaling factors are linear multiplicative factors.

They change the Y axis values, but they do not change the shape of the spectrum.

So the spectrum is not going to look any different if you have if you apply or don't apply these to

normalization factors.

And therefore, scaling is not always necessary, scaling the so applying these to normalization factors

is necessary only if you want the results of the Fourier transform to have the same units as the original

signal.

Now, it might seem strange that I'm saying that this is optional, but in real practical data analysis,

you often don't care about the actual units.

What you care about in many cases is the shape of the spectrum and the relative energy that is concentrated

at different frequencies.

So the shape of the power spectrum is never going to change with these two normalization factors.

Therefore, when you see in code or in practice and in graphs and visualizations that the Y axis of

an amplitude spectrum or power spectrum is not in the same units as the original input data, then you

don't freak out.

It's most likely find there's relatively few exceptions where it is really important to have the output

of the Fourier transform in the same units as the original data.