In this video, we're going to have a quick look at the complex sine waves that are used to create the

positive and the negative sides of the Florida spectrum.

And then I will spend most of the video talking about the two amplitude normalization factors that I

discussed in a previous video.

OK, so this cell will run a video that shows complex sine waves used in the 48 transform.

I think I'll just start this video and then we will start talking about.

And I think there's I think all this code is just going to work already.

So let's just run this and see what happens.

OK, so that first time I ran through the animation, it was a little bit choppy because I think it's

just Monday morning and my computer, you know, the graphics engine in Matlab needed to wake up a bit.

Anyway, let's try running this again.

So what you're looking at here is the sine waves used in the 48 transform.

They're getting faster and faster and then it looks like they're getting slower and slower.

That is, in fact, what is happening.

So I'm going to run through this animation a couple times.

And of course, I encourage you to do this on your own, on your own computer.

So what you're going to see up here is the title.

This is the fraction of the sampling rate.

So when we get to point five, that corresponds to the Nyquist frequency.

So what you're going to see is that these sound waves, this is the real part in blue and the imaginary

part in red dash dash lines.

So these steinway's these complex sine waves are going to get faster and faster up until the Nykvist,

which is going to be zero point five here.

And after that they're going to it looks like they're going to start getting slower.

So here you see they're getting faster and faster.

They're getting tighter and tighter.

And now once we get past point five, they get slower and slower.

They're the inverse.

And now you really see towards the end that they are getting slower and slower.

In fact, the sideways technically are still getting faster and faster up to one.

The thing is that they are now spinning so fast, the sinuses are going so fast that they cannot be

measured with the democratization rate.

So they are getting aliased.

They appear to be slow, even though they are actually really, really fast.

This is all aliasing that's happening here.

So if you are also taking this course because you want to improve your MATLAB coding skills, then I

encourage you to look through all of this code and figure out how I set up this animation, in particular

using the set function with setting the Y data and so on.

But for now, I'm going to move on and I want to get to this section.

So scaling of the 48 coefficients.

So the goal of this section is to understand the necessity and logic behind the two normalization factors.

So let's see what we're doing here.

Here we are creating a signal.

It's a sine wave at four hertz and the amplitude is two point five units.

You know, it doesn't really matter what these units are, two point five elephants.

So we have our ground truth signal and here we are implementing the Fourier transform in a loop.

Now, as I've mentioned a few videos ago, in general, you know, in practice, you should never be

implementing the Fourier transform in the loop.

You should always be using the FFT function.

It's much, much faster.

But I guess at this point in the course, I think it's still useful to see the foyer transform written

out in code like this.

So you can appreciate that it's a pretty straightforward operation.

So create the complex sine wave and then take the DOT product with the signal.

And then here I'm extracting the magnitude of the Fourier coefficients.

These are the the vector of frequencies.

So you can see it goes from zero to Nykvist in and over two plus one steps and then we just do some

plotting.

So let's see what this looks like.

Now, remember, one of the big advantages of simulating data generating your own data is, you know

exactly what the results should be.

And if you don't get the right result, if you cannot recover what you know the results should be,

then you know, something is something is wrong or we're missing something.

So we have to ground truth features of this signal.

One is the frequency, which is at four hertz, and we can see that that is perfect.

So this signal has positive energy at four hertz and zero energy everywhere else.

So we have confirmed this part.

And then, of course, we have this parameter and it's pretty easy to see that that is wrong.

It should be 2.5 and it's like thirty six hundred, whatever it is.

Thirty seven fifty.

So what is the deal there?

What is going on.

So before getting to the first normalization factor, I want to answer this.

First question here.

Does the amplitude match the similes?

OK, I meant the second question, does the amplitude also depend on the length of the signal?

OK, so there to answer that question, what I'm going to do is change this value and actually I'll

put this in a different figure.

So let's put this in figure 12 and I'm going to just change this to be four seconds.

So instead of the signal being three seconds long, now it's four seconds long and then run all this

code again.

And now let's see.

So we still so we still get the perfect reconstruction at four hertz.

So that is at least a little bit comforting.

But now the amplitude is higher.

Now it's at five thousand instead of thirty seven fifty.

So it seems like even though we haven't changed the actual amplitude of the signal, all we've done

is make it a little bit longer.

We added one extra second to it and the amplitude increased.

Now, that really shouldn't be.

I mean, that tells you immediately that something is missing here.

So you can already guess what's missing.

And that is the first of two normalization factors that I discussed in the slides a few videos ago.

Or maybe it was just the last video anyway.

So let's do that.

So let's divide all of these Fourier coefficients by and let me see if we have.

Yeah, we have a variable called Point so P and yes.

So that is one normalization factor.

And now let's see, I'll go back to I'll leave this in figure 12 actually.

So let's see.

So rerun all of this code and now we see that the amplitude is looks like it's going to be one point

two five.

So that is pretty interesting because the true amplitude, the answer that we should get is two point

five.

And the answer that we got in the plot is exactly half of that.

So you probably already know what we have to do to fix that.

But before we get there, I want to go back and revisit this time duration issue.

So I'm going to set this back to be three seconds and put this back and figure eleven.

And I want to convince myself that this is the first normalization factor is getting us somewhere.

It's not totally exactly the right answer yet.

But notice that now we still get an amplitude value of one point twenty five, which is exactly the

same as what we got over here, one point twenty five.

So that means that this normalization factor corrects for it.

So this normalization factor dividing the four year coefficients by the number of time points in the

signal that fixes part of the issue.

So part of the issue is that the the magnitude of the Fourier coefficients was larger for more time

points in the signal, even when the signal itself doesn't change its features.

All right.

Very good, by the way.

Another thing that you can see here is that the frequency resolution is actually different.

So I notice that here we have fewer data points and here we have more data points.

That is because the frequency resolution of the 48 transform is equal to the number of points in the

signal.

I haven't yet discussed that.

I haven't really talked about why that is or what that means, although I did mention it, you know,

with the number of frequencies being an over two plus one.

So I'm going to have a whole video just on the frequency resolution and how that's related to the number

of points and issues like zero padding and so on.

But I thought it's interesting to remark now.

OK, anyway, let's get back to the task at hand.

So we know also from the previous video that the second normalization factor is to double the amplitude

of the positive frequencies.

And really what we're doing is folding the negative frequency spectrum back onto the positive frequency

spectrum and then summing the negative frequencies and the positive frequencies together.

And I also told you that for a real valued signal, the positive frequencies and the negative frequencies

are perfect mirrors of each other.

So for that reason, we can actually just ignore the negative frequencies and double the positive frequencies,

which is what I'm doing here.

So let's do this.

And now you're not going to be surprised that this actually works.

And now we get we specified the amplitude to be two point five and the answer now is two point five.

So that is a nice empirical confirmation of the two normalization factors that I mentioned in the previous

video.

Now, this turns out to be a slight simplification, just multiplying the entire spectrum by two.

It's not really exactly accurate.

And the reason is that here we are also multiplying the DC or the zero hertz frequency by two.

Now, in this particular example, it actually doesn't matter because the zero frequency component is

zero.

So two times zero is still zero.

So let's see what the implications of this are in the next cell.

So here I'm going to talk about the DC component of the zero frequency component reflecting the mean

offset.

OK, so what are we doing in this code here?

So here we are.

So we're still working with that same signal that we created above.

And you can see here now I'm shifting to using the FFT function.

So what I do is add the signal to two.

So I add two to the signal and then I add, then I subtract the mean, which actually I believe that.

So this is already going to have a mean of zero.

OK, so this is zero plus computer rounding error.

So that is a little bit redundant.

But this can be you know, this is like general for any signal.

This is just making sure that it has a mean of zero.

And then here I'm adding 10 to the entire signal.

So here you see one of the two normalization factors.

And I actually already see a problem with this code.

I wonder if you can see it as well.

So the problem with this code here is that we are dividing by the length of points, but points is a

variable that just tells us how many points there are.

So, in fact, the length of the of the variable points is one.

So what we're actually doing here is dividing by one which does nothing.

So we could say divide by the length of signal, which is fine, but actually better would be to simply

divide by points like this, OK.

And then here so here I'm plotting the inverse Fourier transform of the signal.

Now, I haven't really talked about the inverse Fourier transform, but essentially the inverse Fourier

transform is the reverse of the forward 48 transform.

It's the procedure, the operation that allows you to go from the frequency domain back into the time

domain.

So what we're doing is reconstructing a time series signal based on these spectra that we are computing

here.

So this goes time domain into the frequency domain and then this goes from the frequency domain back

to the time domain.

And then the reason why we're multiplying by points here is that here we're dividing.

So we are normalizing out the number of points.

So then to get back into the time domain, we need to multiply by points again.

This is also another normalization factor.

OK, and then here, this looks kind of funny.

Here we are multiplying by points and points and here by the length of the signal.

I think that's just here to make you think this is not actually incorrect, although it is a little

bit more elegant to leave this just as points.

OK, so before worrying about the frequency domain, let us run this code here and have a look.

So here we see our three signals.

We have one with a mean of zero, with a mean offset of two and with a mean offset of ten.

All right.

And then here we are plotting the signals in the frequency domain.

So before running this code, let's already see that we've done the two normalization factors.

So we're multiplying the amplitudes by two and we've already divided by end up here.

So let's see what this looks like.

Again, I know exactly what the ground truth should be.

So I know that for this dimming signal, the means should be zero.

So the red line here should be at zero at zero hertz, which it is.

And I know that the well, it's called the original this because I change this signal and I guess I

forgot to update the legend, but that's OK.

So we know that this blue signal, this one has a mean offset of two because I added two.

And yet here the value here is actually four.

So we can we can just sort of read that off here and here for this black line.

This corresponds to this sine wave.

And the mean offset here is ten.

We know that from looking at this plot and also from looking at the code here and yet here we're getting

twenty.

So what is the deal here?

What's going on?

Well, you've probably already guessed that based on what I said in the previous video, we have to

multiply by two only the positive frequencies, not including zero, also technically not including

the Nyquist.

But you can see we're not plotting even anywhere near up to Nyquist frequency, so we don't have to

worry about that.

Also, it's interesting just to note that we still get the correct empl.

Values here.

All right, so what I want to do is let's create some new variables here, so let's compute amplitudes.

So I will call this let's call this mple one equals and then let's see how shall we do this?

I will do it like this.

I will say equals the magnitude.

And then I'm going to say sample one from two through end equals two times and pull one two through.

And so notice, what I'm doing here is I'm extracting the non normalized magnitude just from the positive

frequencies and then here I'm multiplying them by two, but I'm not multiplying all of them by two and

multiplying from two to N.

So this two here doesn't correspond to two hertz.

This corresponds to the second frequency index, which is this one over here.

So all of these guys from this point up is going to be multiplied by two.

All right, and then so then here this gets replaced with a simple one.

So then let me so of course, I have to fix the other two, but I'm just going to run this here just

to make sure that this is already accurate.

So you saw this one little blue line move down and we can confirm, let's see.

So ample one.

And then the first number is two.

So this corresponds to zero hertz.

It's the first element.

And at two hertz, we have a value of two and amplitude value of two.

OK, so I think in the interest of time, I see this video is already getting a little bit long.

I'm not going to copy and paste this for the other two, but you can see that it's fairly straightforward

or it's very straightforward to make this be accurate.

Give us the accurate amplitude spectrum for these other two signals.

You just have to copy and paste this thing and always be mindful that you are replacing all of these

ones with twos or in general replacing or correctly updating all the variable names as appropriate.

So question, can you adapt the code for accurate scaling of all three signals?

Yes, of course you can do it.

OK, so I did it for one and I hope that you will continue doing it for the other two.