A lot of the videos in this section so far have been using very simplistic analyses on simulated data.

So what I want to do now is move a little bit into real data.

We are going to be doing a spectral analysis of resting state.

So resting state EEG means that the EEG was recorded from a human from a research participant while

that participant was just kind of sitting quietly in a dimly lit room, doing nothing in particular.

And that's why it's called resting state.

OK, so the goal what we want to do is to plot a power spectrum of the resting state data.

So let's start by loading in these data.

And whenever you load in a new data set, the first thing you should always do is type who's and see

what we have in this map file.

So we have a very two variables.

EEG data and rate estimate is obviously the sampling rate.

Let's see what that is.

So it's one thousand twenty four hertz.

So that means we have one sample point approximately every millisecond and then we have the EEG data

and it's a it's a vector.

It's a one by a hundred thousand vector.

And so without any further information, I believe it is safe to assume that this means we have one

channel and one hundred thousand time points, 120000 time points.

OK, so create a vector that start a time vector that starts from zero.

So we have just creating this variable endpoints and then let's see, we want the time vector.

It's got to start at zero.

I'm going to set this up as going up to endpoints minus one.

And then so this would be time and indices.

But you know, usually we one time in some meaningful physical unit like milliseconds.

So therefore we divide by the sampling rate and then we can make sure that this vector time is one hundred

and twenty two thousand eight hundred eighty, which is the same as the length of the EEG data.

All right.

So then we plot the time domain signal.

So let's see.

Now, this is not really what I expect EEG data to look like.

This is just a straight line that's going up.

What is going on here?

OK, what's going on here is that we are plotting time by time.

That is not a terribly interesting plot.

I think we want to plot time by EEG data.

Let's see.

Let's try this again.

Always a bit tricky.

OK, so now we have voltage fluctuations in the Y axis time on the X axis.

And now when you look at this plot, this might look like noise.

It might just look like random numbers.

But the thing is that this is over a period of 120 seconds.

This is two minutes of data.

And so, sure, at this scale, of course, the EEG signal is going to look like noise.

So it's good to zoom in a little bit and explore around what these data look like at a bit of a closer

scale.

So this is already pretty interesting here.

I'm zooming into a few seconds and we can see it looks like there's a couple of prominent features that

we see here.

One is, while these really fast fluctuations that you see here, I believe that's line noise.

I believe that this is 50 hertz line noise or we'll have a look at this in the power spectrum.

And then you can also see that there are these fluctuations here, these oscillations which are don't

appear to be noise.

Let's say I'm going to zoom into a period of one second.

And the thing about zooming into one second.

So from second forty three, the second forty four is that we can easily just count the number of cycles

and then convert that into Hertz immediately.

So we just count the number of peaks for example.

So there's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.

And maybe this is going up to eleven.

So let's say 10 or maybe 11 peaks in a span of one second.

And so that's ten cycles per second and that is the alpha range.

And that's something that we would expect to see certainly in posterior channels.

So in the back of the head during a resting state task.

All right.

So let's see.

It's also good.

So there's there's something, you know, some really large fluctuations here.

So it's useful if you're looking at data like this, it's useful to zoom in and try and get a sense

of whether this is an artifact or whether this is real data and just a little bit unusual.

So this looks a little bit unusual.

All that you have this this rather sharp deflection here and this like little kind of spike here, but

I don't think this is necessarily something to worry about.

This doesn't look like some really bizarre artifact.

All right.

So that was for the EEG data.

Now for the static spectral analysis.

So here we define the vector of frequencies.

In Hertz, we go from zero to Nyquist, half the sampling rate in MN over to plus one steps.

And then here we're computing the amplitude spectrum.

So we take the EEG data, pass it into the FFE function divide by the number of time points and multiply

by two.

So that gives us the two normalization factors that we need to convert this the output of the function

into these same units as the original data, which are micro volts.

Now, you'll notice that I'm not applying this normalization multiplying by two totally, totally accurately,

because to really apply this accurately, I would need to double all the positive frequencies, not

including the zero hertz component.

And here I'm also multiplying the zero hertz component by two.

However, you will actually see in a moment that that's fine, because it turns out that these data

have been high pass filter, which we will see in the power spectrum.

So that is the amplitude spectrum and then the power spectrum is amplitude squared.

And here we are.

This code says amplitude.

So the square root of amplitude amplitude to the power of one half.

So who wrote this code?

It was either someone who really doesn't know what they're doing or someone who has a strange sense

of humor.

So let's see here.

We are going to plot the amplitude and the power spectrum on top of each other and put in some labels

here.

And let's see.

So I'm going to go down to these questions here.

What are the three prominent features of the EEG power spectrum?

So three prominent features that you can generally look for in electrophysiology power spectra are first

of all, we have the one over F and that you see here.

So power is generally decreasing with increasing frequency.

So that's one prominent feature.

Another prominent feature that you often see with electrophysiology data is these very, very narrow

spikes at line noise frequencies.

So this is 50 hertz.

There's probably a small one here at 100 hertz.

And then we see 150 hertz and a small peak here at 200 hertz and then 250 hertz and et cetera.

So on.

So line noise is easy to distinguish from real physiological activity, partly because you know exactly

what frequency it's at.

So 50 hertz in some countries, 60 hertz in other countries.

And also it's remarkable, partly because it's super, super narrow.

It's very, very thin.

It's much, much thinner than any real endogenous brain activity.

OK, so spikes at line noise frequencies is the second prominent feature that you will often see in

EEG power spectra.

And the third prominent feature that you want to look for in these power spectra is deviations from

the one over F and that you see very strongly here.

And now I'm going to zoom in.

So I'm setting the Y axis limit to be zero to 30 hertz.

So we can see here's the one over F and then we see a deflection from the one over F, so a deviation

from the one over F, and this indicates the presence of rhythmic activity or oscillatory activity.

OK, and then it's also interesting to I think I'll even zoom in more.

Let's go down to three hertz.

So it's also interesting to see what's happening at the lower end of the spectrum.

Now, if you first look at this spectrum, you might think that there is a peak here.

You might think that, you know, imagine if you would smooth out all these little rough edges here.

You might think that this is a peak at around, you know, point five or point seven hertz.

However, this is these data were actually high pass, filtered probably at around point one hertz.

So I think what's really happening here is that there is one over F, which is going all the way up

here.

But then we've filtered out.

We apply at a high pass filter here at zero point one Hertz or thereabouts, and that filtered out all

this really low frequency activity.

And so that gives the appearance of a peak here when it's actually just what the one over F plus a filter.

So this is something you have to be mindful of when you were looking at really, really low frequencies,

applying a high pass filter at.

Somewhere around, um, point five or point one or point five hertz, that is a pretty typical preprocessing

procedure for EEG data analysis.

And this is also the reason why I am not concerned about doubling the zero hertz component here, doubling

the DC component because it's already at zero.

OK, let's see how we are.

What do you notice about the difference between the amplitude and power spectra?

OK, so this is a really interesting question.

You might wonder why I'm plotting both the amplitude and the power spectrum here, and that's because

I want to talk about the difference between visually inspecting the amplitude spectrum and the power

spectrum.

Obviously, these are both highly related to each other because power is amplitude squared, but they

highlight different features of the signal.

So because we are squaring the amplitude values to get power, that means that large values will get

larger and small values will get only a little bit larger.

Now, in this particular case, we actually get a funny reversal where the power values are smaller

than the amplitude values, and that's because the values are less than one.

So then we square them and they get smaller.

Still, the relatively large values only get a little bit smaller, whereas the relatively smaller values

get much smaller.

And just to show you, I can let's see.

So I'm going to remove this part so I'm not going to divide by NP and that is going to make the power

values much bigger.

So now we have a values in the range of, you know, ten to the ten to the eight, 10 to the nine.

And I think that the, uh, to see the amplitude, we're going to have to really, really zoom in here.

Let's see.

Still don't see the OK, starting to see the amplitude values, right?

So now you see the amplitude is way, way smaller than the power.

OK, so let's run this again and go to 30 hertz again, OK?

And so the idea is that because the power values involve squaring, then what?

The key difference between amplitude and power is that the amplitude spectrum highlights these subtle

features of the signal, whereas the power spectrum highlights the most prominent features of the signal.

So, for example, you can see in the black spectrum, so the amplitude spectrum, there's clearly this

robust peak here around 10 hertz, but also looks like there's a little peak here at 15 hertz.

But relatively in the power spectrum, this 15 hertz peak looks much, much smaller compared to the

10 hertz.

And that's because these values are larger.

So they grow faster when they get squared.

Or as I mentioned before, they because these values are less than one actually shrinking more slowly.

These values are shrinking much faster.

Similarly, here for the amplitude spectrum, you see that there's still a lot of clearly visible power

above 20 hertz.

And for the power spectrum, that is, you know, it almost looks like a flat line.

It's very, very close to zero above 20 hertz.

So that's really the key difference between the power spectrum and the amplitude spectrum.

The amplitude spectrum highlights the subtle features of the signal and the power spectrum highlights

the most prominent features of the signal.

Neither one is correct or incorrect, or better or worse, they just focus on they focus your attention

on different aspects of the signal.

All right.

Last question.

Can you see the Tanaz oscillations and the raw time series data?

The answer is yes.

We already had a look at that.

And it's interesting to zoom around.

You will see sometimes you can find these bursts of alpha and sometimes they go away and there isn't

really any alpha.

So it's interesting to see that this alpha feature of the data is like 10 hertz feature of the data

is not continuous over time.

It comes and goes.

So as I mentioned in the beginning of this video, this is for one channel.

These are data for one channel, one electrode placed on the scalp.

In the next video, we are going to look at Alpha Power over all of the different channels, 64 different

channels.

And we are going to see what the topographical distribution of Alpha looks like.

So I'll see you in the next video.