In the previous video, I discussed why the 48 transform is a perfect representation in the frequency

domain of your time domain signal, and one of the implications of that lossless transformation is that

we can also use a similar operation to get back from the frequency domain into the time domain.

That operation is called the inverse Fourier Transform.

So the inverse four year transform gets you from the frequency domain back to the time domain.

And the other Frieza transform that we've been working with so far is called the Forward Fourier transform.

Although usually, you know, when people just say the Fourier transform, they're generally always

referring to the forward for transform.

So in this video, I'm going to explain briefly how the inverse Fourier transform works.

And then I will explain to motivations for using the coupling the combination of the forward and inverse

Fourier transform.

So here's how the inverse Fourier transform works.

Remember that in the inverse for a transform, we start off with the Fourier coefficients.

So we already have all of the complex valued Fourier coefficients and what we want to do is reconstruct

a signal in the time domain.

So here's how it works.

You start off with one Fourier coefficient like this.

So here you see the complex plane and the Fourier coefficient is going to be represented by some points,

some coordinates somewhere on that plane.

And this would be for frequency equals one.

So just for one particular frequency.

So what you do is you take this Fourier coefficient and you multiply it by a template complex sine wave.

So I'm calling this a template complex sine wave because it doesn't have its own unique amplitude or

phase parameter.

So the amplitude is one and the phase is set to zero.

So you can think of this as being like a template.

And then what you impose onto this template, you modulate this template complex sine wave by the complex

Fourier coefficient at this frequency.

And then you've probably already guessed that the next step is to take another Fourier coefficient at

a different frequency and multiply that by another complex sine wave.

And of course, the frequency of this complex sine wave corresponds to the frequency from which you

took this Fourier coefficient and then blah, blah, blah.

So on up to and coefficients because you have NP time points and frequencies.

And then again, you're just multiplying this Fourier coefficient by this complex sine wave, which

is like a template.

And then you have this for all of your NP complex sine waves and complex for coefficients, and then

you simply sum all of the modulated complex sine waves together.

So you sum all of these things together and that gives you the time domain signal.

So here on this slide, you see basically just a different way of explaining the same thing.

So this is with pseudocode.

So we loop over all of the NT frequencies.

We create a complex sine wave with the same length as the length of the signal, which also means the

number of sine waves and the frequency is the index, the looping index here.

So here I call it time pointier, calling it frequency.

I apologize for the confusion, but of course those are the same because we have NT time points and

frequencies.

So this is exactly the same, almost exactly the same complex sine wave as we created in the forward.

Forty eight transform and the forward for you transform.

That complex sine wave had a minus sign in the exponential and here we don't have a minus sign, but

otherwise it's basically the same thing.

So then we take this complex sine wave and instead of computing the DOT product with the signal, that's

what we do in the forward for you.

Transform here.

We multiply this sine wave by the complex Fourier coefficient of this frequency and then we just some

all of these modulated sine waves together.

And that gives us the time domain signal.

And then, you know, there is sometimes an optional normalization factor.

This depends on whether you've normalized the forty eight coefficients in the forty eight, the forward

forty eight transform.

OK, but this is essentially the main idea.

OK, so this tells us that we can get from the time domain to the frequency domain through the forward

for a transform and we can get from the frequency domain back to the time domain using the inverse for

AA transform.

And both of these directions are perfect.

They are lossless transformations from this domain.

Into this domain, so we can sit here all day and all night for a thousand years and go from the time

domain to the Ford, it's the frequency domain back to the time domain, back to the frequency domain.

We can keep going in this loop and we are never going to lose an iota of information.

So what then is the point of the inverse Fourier transform?

Why would you want to go here to here only to go back to here?

Well, there are two reasons to use this combination of the forward and inverse Fourier transform,

and those two reasons are filtering, which you could also call spectral source separation.

So temporal filtering and spectral source separation.

And I'm going to talk more about that later in the next section of the course.

But essentially, the idea is that you go from the time domain into the frequency domain and let's say

we are really interested in this frequency range.

So then what you do is attenuate or zero out all of the frequencies below what you're interested in

and above what you're interested in.

And then you do the inverse for a transform.

And now that inverse for you transform is not going to be exactly the time domain signal.

It's just going to be the time domain signal at these energy ranges.

So that's one reason to use the forward and inverse way transform.

The second reason to use this cycle here of the forward and inverse Fourier transform is to decrease

computation.

Time to make your analyses run faster.

That is thanks to something called the convolution theorem.

And I'm going to talk all about this in the next section of the course on time frequency analysis.