There are two major goals for this video.

One is to show you an example of the distinction between the sampling rate and the number of time points

that determines the frequency resolution of the Fourier transform, and that will naturally lead into

a discussion of zero padding.

So let's start with this first issue of sampling rate and the number of time points.

So what we're going to do here is simulate three different signals and those signals will have one of

two sampling rates and one of two time durations.

And then we will see what determines the temporal resolution and the frequency resolution.

So here we're going to create three signals.

The first signal will have a sampling rate of one hundred hertz.

And the time duration is actually not a really accurate variable name here.

The time duration is actually going to be this plus one.

So this will be two seconds at one hundred hertz.

The second signal will be 10, 11 seconds at 100 hertz, and the third signal will be two seconds at

one kilohertz.

And then there's some plotting.

Let's see.

So there's some loop in here.

And actually, let's start let's just start running some of this code and see what happens.

So here I set up this figure and then I'm going to set this looping index variable Perram I to be one,

and now here we define the sampling rate for this round.

So for this iteration now, I can already tell that this is incorrect because we are only simulating

one signal at a time within each iteration in this loop.

So, in fact, this should be estimates and then the Parum Parum if index.

So that gives us for this particular signal, it's going to be a sampling rate of 100 hertz.

And then here we define the time vector.

So you can see we're always starting at minus one and then we end at the time duration.

So that's what I meant by, you know, these signals being actually two seconds, 11 seconds and two

seconds.

So let's create time.

That's a nice thing to do, isn't it?

Create some time.

Let's make some more time here.

And then we create the signal.

And then you can see this is a cosine wave at some frequency that we have defined earlier times.

This time, vector times a Gaussian here.

So this is actually a signal that's called a Morleigh wavelength.

Here's the spelling.

Morleigh Wavelet.

We are going to be discussing Morleigh Wavelets in much more detail in the next section on time frequency

analysis.

For now, it doesn't really matter.

It's just some signal that we can work with.

All right.

So here we compute the Fourier transform and then normalize.

And for convenience, I'm normalizing it according to the maximum value of the signal spectrum in the

frequency domain.

So here we take the 48 transform and then we say the Fourier spectrum equals itself, divided by the

maximum value.

Now, the reason why I'm dividing by the maximum value here is to make sure that all of these signals

are going to be easily visually compared in the same plot.

So here is my question for you.

The question for you is, do we need this normalization factor here?

This is one of the two normalization factors that I discussed a few videos ago.

But do we need it here?

And the answer is no.

And the reason why we don't need it is because I'm normalizing the spectrum again over here.

So, you know, I could also multiply multiply this by some really large number, and that still doesn't

matter because I'm going to max value normalize here.

OK, so let's see.

So we create the signal and then take its spectrum.

And let's actually have a look at this signal here.

So I'm going to plot time by signal.

Always good to visualize things.

And here you can see what this signal looks like.

So you see the cosine component.

And then you can also see the Gaussian windowing, this cosine wave here.

All right, and then we define the vector of frequencies and of course, this needs to change for every

iteration of the loop because the sampling rate and the length of the signal are going to be different

for each iteration of this loop.

And then we do some plotting.

And let's see, I'm going to keep my fingers crossed here and hope that this plotting code all works

without me having to change anything.

So let's see.

I'm going to run all this code and.

All right, we don't get any errors.

That's always a comforting feeling.

So what are we looking at in this figure?

We are looking at the signal in the time domain and the signal in the frequency domain.

So the amplitude spectrum and you can see there's a couple of different colors.

That's for the three different versions of the signal with the different sampling rates and durations.

So now what I want to do is discuss the temporal resolution and the frequency resolution of these different

signals.

So let's start with the time domain signal.

The first question is, which of these three signals has the highest temporal resolution where the temporal

resolution is, the number of time points, the number of measurement points per unit time like per

second?

Now, the answer to this question here for the time domain is totally trivial.

The signal with the highest temporal resolution is the signal with the highest sampling rate, which

is the blue dotted line.

So that is the sampling rate of a kilohertz.

That is a trivial answer because the temporal resolution is determined by the sampling rate.

That is literally what the sampling rate is.

It's the temporal resolution.

OK, so we've answered that question.

And by the way, we're not actually seeing the entire signal here.

Now I'm zooming out and now you can see the whole signal for the Magenta Star Line.

That was with a sampling rate of one hundred hertz and 12 seconds or E or 11 seconds.

So you can see it's going all the way out to ten here.

All right.

So that was for the time domain.

Now let's discuss the frequency domain.

So, again, the question is, which of these three signals has the highest frequency resolution or

the highest spectral resolution?

And the spectral resolution is defined as the number of frequency bins per, you know, let's say per

hertz or, you know, per per unit frequency.

So now the answer is not so trivial, because you can see that the signal that had the highest sampling

rate is not the signal that has the highest spectral resolution.

So the blue line here is not what gives us the highest spectral resolution.

Instead, it is the magenta star and that does not have the highest sampling rate.

But of course, this is the thing that goes on the longest.

It goes on for 11 seconds.

So the signal is really long.

So therefore it has a lot of time points.

So therefore we get a lot of frequencies.

OK, now and then.

You know, I would also like you to notice that the highest frequency we can get up to is different

for these different signals.

So we have a sampling rate of one hundred hertz for the black start, the black dot and the magenta

star and those you see those two spectra stop here at 50 years.

And then this blue line has a Nykvist of 500.

I'm not going to zoom all the way out to see that, but you can see that the blue line is going much

further out.

OK, but the important message from this part of the video is the reminder that the illustration that

the sampling of frequencies, so the frequency resolution in the frequency domain resolution is not

determined by the sampling rate.

It's mainly determined by the number of time points in the signal.

Now, I realize that that's also kind of clear from all the videos I've discussed so far about how the

Fourier transform works.

But I think it's still a little bit different.

It's not always so intuitive when you see it like this in the time domain and in the frequency domain.

All right.

Very nice.

So that was for this part.

Now, what I want to do is discuss zero padding and spectral resolution.

So we are going to look at the effects of zero padding.

And essentially what we're going to do is start with this signal here.

You can see it's just a collection of integers.

And then we are going to take the FFE of this signal with different lengths.

So different end of the 50s.

And then we are going to, let's see, plott the signals in the time domain after zero padding are taking

the inverse Fourier transform from the zero padded result.

OK, so let's go through this.

So here we have the signal and here we want to take.

The F.T. And this comment is not correct, with different D.C. assets, clearly a copy and paste this

this should say with different FFG lengths.

So I've already introduced you to the additional optional inputs into the F.T. function.

So previously in an earlier video, I said ignore this second input and only pay attention to this third

input.

Now we are going to pay attention to the second input.

This is the end in the end point FFE padded with zeros if x the first input has less than endpoints.

OK, so that is important to know because when I discussed zero padding in the slides in the previous

video, it looked like, you know, you have to manually add all of those zeros when in fact you don't,

you don't have to add all of the zeros.

All you have to do is tell Matlab FFE function what the length of the FFE should be.

And this is a little bit tricky at first because what you actually need to do is input provide as the

second input, the total number of points and the F.T., which is not the same thing as the number of

zeros that you want to add.

So notice if we want to zero pad by 10, you don't write ten here.

So that's not the right thing to do.

This is not the right thing to do.

This will in fact compute the F.T. with only ten points, but the signal is fourteen points.

So in fact what matlab is going to do if we input it like this is matlab is actually going to say return

the FFE only from the first ten points.

So it's going to actually truncate it's going to remove data which you obviously don't want to do.

So instead, what you provide in the second input is the total duration of the FFT, which in our case

is the length of the signal plus ten.

So then we zero pad by 10.

Another important note here is that if you are normalizing to the signal length, which remember is

one of the two optional normalization factors, then you still actually normalize according to the number

of points in the original signal, not the total number of points, including the zeros.

Let's see.

So here what we want to do is zero compared to the length of the signal plus one hundred.

So let's see.

One hundred.

There you go.

You can see I like to have my code nicely vertically aligned.

I think it really facilitates clean easy to read code.

OK, let's see.

I don't see anything missing in the code here.

So I think the rest of this is just going to run.

Let's start plotting.

And I guess you should also notice here that the frequencies vector needs to be different for the different

lengths of the signal or the different NFTE.

OK, so let's see.

Let's start with just this time domain plot here.

So notice that what I'm plotting here, what you're seeing in this plot is not the original signal that

I defined here.

Instead, it is the signal.

Then take the FFE of that signal.

Then we get the forty eight coefficients.

And then what I'm actually plotting is the inverse ffe of those Fourier coefficients.

So this is the result of going from the time domain into the frequency domain, zero padding and then

taking the inverse FFT to get back into the time domain.

And here you see the different zero padded version.

So this is where the original signal stops right here.

And then you can see it goes on.

There's an extra 10 zeros here and then there's an extra one hundred zeros are going all the way out

here.

OK, so this is in the time domain.

Let's see what these signals look like in the frequency domain.

So here you can see I'm plotting the magnitude.

So the amplitude of the Fourier coefficients.

So then here we see in blue, so blue is the native end, so this is a 14 point.

I think it's 14 points.

I'm showing up to Nykvist and we don't have to worry about the actual physical units in terms of hurt.

So I just set the frequency units to go up to point five here.

So point five would be Nykvist.

So we see the native ngh that's in blue and then we get the amplitude spectrum from the end of the 50

being end plus ten.

So twenty four versus one hundred and fourteen in black.

So what do you notice about these differences here?

Well, certainly they are pretty similar to each other except here.

There's something funky going on here where we have the original signal, the actual fire, the original

signal goes from here to here, but then both the red line.

So the 10 zero Petitt and 100 zero Petitt signals seem to have this extra dip here.

And you can also see that there are more they're curved, they're a bit smoother.

In fact, this is related to something called the Zero Padding Theorem, which states that zero padding

in the time domain is equivalent to sink interpolation or smooth interpolation of the power spectrum

in the frequency domain.

So we paid more and more zeros to the signal in the time domain.

And the result is a spectrum that is smoother like this.

Now, sometimes that's nice because the smoothed version can be a little bit more interpretable and

sometimes it's a little bit awkward because, you know, essentially the Fourier transform is trying

to guess what the power would be here or, you know, compute what the power would be here, assuming

that the signal had all these zeroes in there, even though we didn't actually measure the signal in

the real world over here.

So when you look at this particular example, you might think that, you know, zero padding is a terrible

idea.

It's totally misleading.

You should never do it.

But in fact, as I note up here, I kind of intentionally picked created this signal, at least towards

the end, so that you would get this awkward effect here.

So what I encourage you to do is to play around with these numbers a bit.

You can randomly change the numbers or come up with a longer signal and then try with more zero padding.

And you'll see that this is actually a fairly rare, extreme case in most cases.

The result is a little bit more like this, where it's just a smoothed version of what the power spectrum

already looks like.

And by the way, the longer the signal, the less drastic will be something like this.

So I hope you found this video useful.

I hope you feel like you're better able to connect the kind of theoretical discussions that I gave over

the past videos into more concrete work examples.