This video is all about the concept of non stationary in a signal.

So what are non stationary cities and what do they mean?

That's basically the whole point of this video.

So let's start with a claim.

I'm going to make the claim that the results of the Fourier transform are easily interpretable, easily

visually interpretable, only for stationary signals.

Now, I want to be clear about several things on this slide, several things about this claim.

First of all, there's a distinction between the 48 transform being a valid, correct, accurate operation

and the results of the 48 transform, in particular the amplitude spectrum or the power spectrum being

easily visually interpretable.

The Fourier transform is always a perfect, valid transformation.

It always works.

It's always a brilliant procedure.

It doesn't matter whether the signal is sinusoidal or rhythmic or square shaped.

It doesn't matter what the features of the signal are.

The Fourier transform is always a perfect operation, but that doesn't always mean that the results

of the Fourier transform are easy to look at and easy to interpret just based on visual inspection.

And then my claim here is that the amplitude spectrum or the power spectrum from the Fourier transform

is interpretable only for stationary or mostly stationary signals.

OK, so what does this term mean?

Stationary signals?

Here's a definition for stationary.

A signal is stationary when its statistical characteristics do not significantly change over time and

therefore a signal is non stationary when the stationary is violated.

OK, so this definition kind of makes sense.

It's basically just negating the definition here.

So the question is, you know, is this definition of stationary a purely unambiguous, easily interpretable

definition?

And the answer is no.

And I encourage you to pause the video and take a few moments and think about what are the ambiguities

about this definition, what makes this definition be a little bit difficult to interpret or a little

bit hard to interpret, a bit open to interpretation?

Well, there are three sources of ambiguity in this definition.

One is the statistical characteristics.

And to be clear, these are statistical characteristics referring to descriptive statistics, not inferential

statistics.

But that leads to the second source of ambiguity here, which is what does it mean for the descriptive

statistics to significantly change over time?

That means that it's dependent on some statistical test and some threshold, some p value or other inferential

statistical value.

And there's another source of ambiguity which is not really explicitly mentioned here, but it's about

this issue of time over time and what kinds of time windows to use.

All right.

So this definition is intentionally left ambiguous because in our data sets, we generally don't actually

formally test for stationary.

So I would like this to to remain a bit of an intuitive concept.

So let me give you some examples to build some intuition.

And actually, first, I'm going to talk about some of the myriad descriptive statistics.

So what are the many descriptive statistics that you can use to describe a signal?

This is, by the way, a non exhaustive list.

So we have descriptive statistics about the central tendency that includes measures like the mean or

the mode or the median and so on.

We have descriptive statistics about the dispersion of the data, and that's quantities like variance

and keratosis and heteros.

Cadastre City, which is one of the most fun words say in all of statistics.

I think I'll even say it again.

Heteros, cadastre city.

That was fun.

All right.

Anyway, we also have descriptive statistics that are related to the spectrum of the signal.

So the dominant frequency, the shape of the power spectrum, the frequency stability, the amplitude

measures and so on.

And then if we have a multivariate signal, we can also talk about covariance, stationary.

So if the correlation structure across the different channels is the same or is changing over time.

OK, so these are some of the descriptive statistics that make the previous definition.

So the definition of stationary in the previous slide a little bit ambiguous because a signal can be.

Means stationary, but variance, non stationary and so on.

Now I want to build a little bit of intuition about stationary.

So here I have a signal and it's actually just pure noise.

So it's just white noise, but this is just a signal.

So let's imagine we are thinking about the mean or the average.

So the question is the mean in this window here, is that the same mean as the mean of all the data

value in this time window here?

And by the same, I don't mean exactly numerically to, you know, a hundred decimal points, exactly

the same mean, but approximately, you know, within some reasonable tolerance.

Is the average value in this time window the same as the average value in this time window?

I think we can all agree that the answer is yes.

And that answer is also going to be yes here for this time window, which is larger and for this time

window, which is a little bit smaller and later in time.

So in other words, when you look throughout time in this signal, the statistic that we are interested

in here, which is the mean, is essentially the same, you know, within some reasonable tolerance.

The statistical characteristic of this signal is the same regardless of where in time you place the

window and also how wide that window is.

So therefore, we can say that the estimate of this statistic, the mean is independent of the size

and location of the time window.

Again, you know, this is within within reason.

So if you would take a window that includes only this one single data point, then the mean is just

that data point.

Obviously, that's very different from the mean of this data point.

So, you know, we have to be reasonable here.

But if we can say that the estimate of these statistics, the descriptive statistic is independent of

the size and location of the time window, then the mean is, are then the signal is in this case means

stationary.

So let me contrast that with this signal here.

Now, this is also white noise.

This is integrated white noise.

So I take the cumulative sum of white noise and it tends to show these in a lot of smaller trends and

larger trends that look like this looks a little bit more biological.

It's called Brownian noise.

It's just integrated noise, integrated white Gaussian noise.

Anyway, let us repeat the same experiment.

So we start with a mean in this time window.

And the question is, is that mean approximately the same as oops, the mean in this time window here?

So this time window and this time window.

And I think here we can agree that the mean will be different.

In fact, it looks like every single data point in this time window is larger, then every single data

point in this time window.

So the means are definitely going to be different.

The distributions of data values are non overlapping.

And then again, you know, we can play around with the window size.

And so essentially what we've discovered here is that the estimate of the statistic in this case, again,

the mean is dependent on the size and the location of the time window.

So therefore, we would call this signal mean non stationary.

Now, notice here that in this example and the previous example on the previous side, I'm not suggesting

that we should run a bunch of tests or F tests or a novas.

I would like to leave this concept of station already more open and flexible as an intuition and not

as something that we necessarily need to quantify all the time.

That is in part because the quantification of non stationary on their own is a bit hairy.

It's a bit difficult.

And also because in neuroscience we deal with so much data that it's just not feasible to test every

little strip of data for stationary.

And finally, the other reason is that the non stationary in brain signals is actually one of the primary

motivations for moving beyond static spectral analyses into time frequency analyses.

So in fact, we don't really need to worry a whole lot about the non stationary because we are going

to be applying data analysis methods that are designed for assessing non stationary.

OK, so let me get back to this definition here.

So a signal is stationary when it's descriptive, statistical characteristics do not significantly change

over time.

So here are the three sources of definitional ambiguities in this statement.

So there are many features of signals.

I showed that slide highlighting all the different descriptive statistics, the concept.

Statistically significant here is a little arbitrary and threshold dependent, and it might depend on

the exact test that you use and the window size and location is also open to interpretation.

Here, I want to show you two more examples of signals that are stationary in some features and non

stationary in other features.

So this signal, for example, is frequency stationary, but amplitude non stationary.

So the frequency is staying the same over time, but the amplitude is increasing over time and this

signal is the opposite.

So you see the amplitude stays the same, but the frequency is abruptly changing in these three windows.

Now, you can also see that the concept of stationary is dependent on the window size.

So if you you know, if you would only look at this first third of the signal, obviously this signal

is highly stationary within this little window here.

So that's also an important concept for time frequency analysis that you have brief moments of stationary

embedded in larger non-state minorities in the entire signal.

Now, why is this important?

Why is this concept of stationary and non stationary important?

It's important because the brain is highly non stationary.

In fact, it is no understatement to claim that probably over 95 percent of all of neuroscience research

is focused specifically on the constitutionality of the brain.

So any time you're looking at changes in brain activity after sensory processing, memory, language,

any kind of cognitive processing, changes in disease or development, you're always looking at non

stationary in the brain.

Of course, there are also neuroscience researchers who are interested in the stationary properties

of the brain.

And this is generally people who are studying anatomical connectivity, for example, how different

regions of the brain are wired to each other.

These are features of the brain that are relatively static.

They don't change a whole lot over the course of your life or over the course of cognition.

But anyway, the point is that nearly all of neuroscience and probably everything that you are doing,

if you are taking this course, is focusing on the non stationary.

So that's a really important limitation of the visual interpretation of the results of the Fourier transform.

And you will also see in the next section of this course that that is a primary motivation for moving

to time frequency analyses.

All right.

So enough talk in the next video.

I'm going to switch to Matlab and I will show you some examples so you can see what non stationary signals

look like in the time domain and how they affect the power spectrum in the frequency domain.