In the previous video, I made the claim that the results of the Fourier transform so the power spectrum

from the 48 transform becomes increasingly difficult to interpret visually when there are non stationary

noise in the time domain signal.

And so in this and the next videos, I'm going to give you some illustrations of that idea.

So this video is going to focus on sharp non-state personalities and the next video will focus more

on smooth non stationary.

So let's begin.

We are going to create a signal that has some sharp transient transitions.

So this initially looks a little bit like the kind of signal that we've created before.

However, previously it was always, you know, we were creating the signal to be itself, plus some

sine wave.

And here what I'm doing is concatenating the signal onto itself.

So it's just starts off at zero.

And then I say the signal is concatenated with itself and then amplitude times sign of two pi f t and

that's going to create a signal with very sharp transitions both in amplitude and in frequency.

So let's see, let's run this and OK, so we already get an error, undefined function or variable.

Now the thing is I just ran a bunch of lines of code here and I don't know where that error is.

So when you see an error after running a lot of lines of code, the first thing you have to do is figure

out where the error is even coming from.

Now, in this case, it's pretty easy because there's no ends in here.

These are just numbers and we can see an end here.

So before just randomly creating some variable and setting some variable ln and setting that to be some

number, let's look down through the code and see what else we have here.

So after creating the signal, we are going to compute its spectrum by the F.T. And then we here we

create a vector of frequencies in Hertz.

So this already tells you that we are going to need more information than what is available here.

So we are going to need a sampling rate.

And here we're putting a time vector T and you can also see that time vector T here and we don't create

that anywhere up here.

So let's create some of these variables.

So we need a sampling rate and I'll call that s rate.

And why don't we go for one kilohertz and then we're going to need a time vector.

And let's go to how about zero two and steps of one over the sampling rate and let's go up to ten seconds.

How about that?

That's a nice long signal.

And then so now we can specify that PN is going to be the length of T.

All right.

So this is good.

So the conclusion here, like the mini conclusion, is that we saw that there was something missing

in the code and I wasn't really sure how to create this variable or how to go about fixing it.

So my solution my approach was to look down and try to guess where we're going, try to figure out where

we're going for the rest of the script or at least the rest of this cell to help me figure out how to

create this variable.

All right.

So now that I've created this variable, let's see.

OK, so now we get a signal and we're going to plot it down below.

But I am super curious.

I want to see what the signal looks like.

So let's plot the signal.

And OK, so here you see that this signal has globally non stationary in amplitude and also in frequency.

And you can also see that there is a local time scale where the signal actually does have stationary

in it.

So, you know, just in this time window, the signal is stationary.

So moving along, compute the spectrum via FFE and here we are dividing by F and does this make any

sense?

F is the vector of frequencies that's used to create this Time series.

This makes no sense whatsoever.

We actually need to divide by n like this.

That seems to make sense.

And let's see, let's have a close look at this frequency vector linearly space numbers from zero to

Nykvist in and over to plus one steps.

OK, so that part seems legit.

All right.

So now we make the plot and then here is the interesting thing.

So now imagine that I showed you this power spectrum or amplitude spectrum, I guess, and I didn't

show you this Time series.

So imagine you didn't see this.

All you saw was this frequency domain amplitude spectrum.

And the question is, what would you probably guess?

What would be your first guess about what the time domain signal looks like just based on what you can?

See, in this spectrum here, I think if you had asked me this question, I would have guessed that

the signal has all four of these frequencies overlapping, plus some broadband noise.

This you know, this looks like it almost could be broadband noise, but that's totally not what's happening.

What's happening is that one part of the or one frequency is present for one window of time and no other

frequencies are present in this window of time.

And then there is this window of time where we have exactly this frequency and nothing else.

And then you also see that the amplitude spectrum is actually wider.

It has some width, you know, has this like carrott shape, which you also also kind of doesn't make

any sense.

These this signal was created by concatenating a bunch of pure steinway's.

Each one of these sine waves is just a pure frequency sine wave within its own little window.

So why do we get these wider peaks here in the spectrum instead of really narrow impulse functions?

So the answer is because these non stationary is essentially as you get more and more severe non-state

sonorities, the Fourier transform requires energy at other frequencies to capture these kinds of non

stationary here.

So this gives you one illustration of the concept that non stationary cities in the time domain produce

results of the foyer spectrum.

So amplitude spectra or power spectra that get difficult to interpret.

All right.

So that is one illustration.

And now I'd like to show another illustration.

So what I have here is an edge.

So I specify that this Vector X, which we are going to be taking the Fourier transform of.

So X is defined first by this boolean.

So I'm saying linearly spaced numbers between zero and one.

And where is that greater than zero point five.

So that's going to be all falsies for the first half and then trews for the second half.

And this is a boolean or a logical vector and then I'm adding zero here.

That's just a little trick to convert from the boolean type into a number, into a double.

OK, so let's run this and then generate a plot.

So here you see what the time domain signal looks like, so it's just a step function like this and

this is the amplitude spectrum of this step function totally wild.

It's like bouncing up and down as kind of this one over F shape.

And it's all basically because of this step here.

This step is really, really difficult for the Fourier transform to capture.

I mean, difficult.

It's still a perfect transformation.

But, you know, it requires a lot of energy at a range of frequencies.

And you get this kind of NuQ counterintuitive bouncing effects.

It's not really clear why you get this bouncing effect.

Again, this happens because of this really strong non stationary here and now.

What I want to show you is that by uncommented this line, we can see what is the effect of interactive,

stationary and non-state parties in the same signal.

So what we're doing is setting this variable X to be equal to itself, plus a pure sine wave at six

hertz and an amplitude at point zero eight.

So it's going to be around here.

So we should expect to see a bar.

And the question is, is the non stationary here in any way negatively affecting the result of this

added signal component here?

So let's see.

So we recreate this figure.

And the cool part is that it doesn't.

So we still see that this stationary feature of the signal is just as pure sine wave.

It's some on top of this really large non stationary, but we can still recover this stationary feature

of the signal perfectly well.

OK, you probably expected that to be point eight and is point zero seven nine nine nine nine nine.

But that's actually just happening because there's not an exact integer number of of cycles at six hertz

that fit into this time vector.

So that, in fact creates its own tiny, tiny, tiny, non stationary.

So this is interesting.

This shows us that if there are stationary and non stationary features in the signal, then the Fourier

transform is going to reflect both the stationary and the non stationary features.

And that's actually not so surprising.

We use linear methods to add these two signals together, so we just some them together.

And the Fourier transform is a linear operation.

The fast way transform is all linear.

It's all based on scalar multiplication and addition.

All right.

So I hope this gives you some intuition for the effects of non stationary in particular edges and sharp

non stationary itis also like this on the amplitude spectrum from the Fourier transform in the next

video.

I'm going to continue this discussion by looking at some signals that are rhythmic but non sinusoidal.

