So continuing on with the idea that I started in the previous video in this video, we are going to

look at more non-state personalities and nonscientist loyalties and what those effects of those non-state

personalities are on the power spectrum.

So let's see.

Looks like we are creating a signal.

We have a time vector here and here.

I'm creating an amplitude modulator that goes from linearly spaced numbers from one through ten, and

then that's going to modify these signals.

So this already looks a little weird here.

But let me let's start by running this code here and let's see what is the deal here.

So I think we have to guess what's happening here.

Let's have a look at this variable.

So ample one is ten thousand and one time points, and that's the same length as the time vector t.

And of course, it's the same as the vector are variable N for the number of time points.

Now looking at signal one, it looks like we create a sine wave at this frequency at three hertz and

then we are multiplying it by one.

So first of all, it's totally useless.

But second of all, I'm guessing that the intention here from whoever was this strange person who wrote

this code was that we are supposed to use this as an amplitude modulator.

And here we have the same code, except this is just one value.

This is just one number.

And this is the average of all of these numbers.

There's something that's commented out here, but I'm going to get back to this later.

All right.

So we create these two signals, take the 48 transforms and divide by PN.

And then here you can see them defining the vector of frequencies to go from zero to the sampling rate

in Insteps.

So you might remember from the video where I discussed how to define the frequencies and converting

from frequency indices into meaningful units of Hertz, that sometimes people use this coding shortcut.

So zero to the sampling rate in N steps.

And remember, the key point there was that this is just a bit of a shortcut.

These frequencies are valid up until the Nyquist frequency and above the Nika's frequency.

You can no longer interpret these numbers, but we are not going to worry about that.

We are not going to interpret the results beyond the Nyquist frequency.

So we are safe.

Let's see.

So now we do some plotting in the time domain.

And let's start here looking at these signals in the time domain.

So I don't know how well you can see this on your screen, but one signal is red and the other one is

like an orange red.

So it's kind of there are a little bit difficult to disentangle.

So I'm going to set the color here to B B for blue and then let's recreate this.

OK, this looks a bit better.

What do you see here is that we have two signals to sign waves.

One is amplitude stationary.

That's the red signal and the blue signal is amplitude non stationary.

So it's frequency stationary.

There's exactly one frequency that creates this signal.

You can see that here, but the amplitude is changing over time.

So then we are going to plot the power spectrum and are actually technically this is the amplitude spectrum.

And let's have a look at this thing.

OK, so here you see.

OK, so now I also need to change this to be blue to make sure it's interpretable.

And I think the rest of that is fine.

We can change the marker face kind of blue as well.

Why not?

Let's see.

So I'm going to recreate this entire figure now.

OK, so here we have the amplitude spectra from these two signals.

Now, first of all, we can look at the red signal and see that this is a stationary sine wave.

It's a pure sine wave.

So we expect that the amplitude spectrum is going to be flat everywhere except for the exact frequency

that we use.

Now, something I would like to point out here that I don't remember if I mentioned it earlier in this

course, but I will mention it again anyway, just in case.

So right here, I'm drawing a line that goes from whatever this frequency is, two point nine up to

three.

Now, when you have a line plot, you are making the implicit assumption that you know exactly what

is happening between these two points.

So, for example, by drawing this line here, I am making the implicit assumption that the value,

the amplitude value at two point nine five hertz is going to be whatever this value is.

Let's call that.

Let's just say it's three for simplicity.

So by drawing this line, I am making the implicit assumption that I know that this amplitude value

here is, is this value here?

Now, that is absolutely not the case.

We actually do not have any frequencies that are measured in this signal at two point nine five hertz.

So we cannot know that the power at two point nine five hertz is actually three.

So therefore, in a very strict sense, it is not really appropriate to use line plots to draw power

spectra like this.

However, when you are drawing multiple spectra on top of each other on the same plot, it's often useful

to draw them as lines just to facilitate visual inspection.

So you have to be a little bit flexible in your, you know, limits of signal processing and visual

display rigor.

So I would say that it's perfectly fine and even preferable to show line plots for power spectra because

that helps you interpret multiple spectra drawn on top of each other at the same time, also in real

data, typically have a very high frequency resolution.

So it doesn't really make too much of a difference.

There's there's very little that we are assuming to be interpolating over.

All right.

So that aside, the point was that the red signal looks exactly how you would expect.

And the blue signal is also so it does have a peak at three hertz.

That part's good.

But you can see that there is non-zero energy at all these frequencies even coming all the way down

here to one hertz and probably even further.

So you can see him specifying the exact limit to be restricted from one to seven hertz.

So even below one hertz, we still have non-zero energy at frequencies other than the frequency that

we specified when creating the signal.

Again, this is related to how the Fourier transform has to deal with these non-state scenarios.

And the way that those get represented is by having non-zero energy at other frequencies.

So this is not really a terrible non stationary.

It's a pretty mild, non stationary.

But I want to show you now is this line here.

Which will replace this line.

So this is going smoothly change so smoothly changing amplitude from one to 10 and what I'm doing here

is interpolating noise.

So I am using the interpret one function and I'm generating 10 random numbers and then I'm just interpolating

across those using spline interpolation, which is a smooth interpolation.

So just to show you what that looks like.

The end conclusion isn't really much different, but it just gives us a slightly more interesting signal,

we get these bursts here.

So it's a big burst here, a big burst here.

Again, the frequency of the signal is not changing or the frequency of this carrier signal is not changing

over time.

It's always at three hertz.

It's just that we have this amplitude modulated, this random smooth amplitude modulator, and that

is creating these side lobes in the 48 transform so we can run this again.

You'll see the shape of these will differ slightly every time I run it, of course, because these are

generated by random numbers.

So this shape is also a little bit different.

All right.

So that was for amplitude non stationary.

Now I'm going to do the same for frequency non stationary.

And what I encourage you to do is refer back to the beginning of this course, the first section of

this course where I had a video about generating signals of different types.

So this was there was a formula that I showed for generating frequency, non stationary signals.

And that's essentially the formula that I'm implementing here.

So what's going to happen is that signal one will have a time varying frequency from two hertz up to

10 hertz.

And then signal two is going to be a purely stationary sine wave with one frequency that corresponds

to the middle of these two.

So six hertz.

All right.

And then all the same business with FFE and plotting the amplitude spectrum.

So let's see here.

All right, so again, you can see the red signal here is the stationary signal and we get, as expected,

just one peek at exactly four hertz.

And the blue signal is a little hard to see here.

Maybe I'll plot this again.

Without this, so let's see.

So I'm just coming out commenting out the line to draw the stationary signal here, so here you see

that this sine wave starts off slow and it's getting faster and faster over time.

And what's really interesting is when you look at the amplitude spectrum of this signal, it's called

a chirp, a linear chirp.

Then, you know, it looks sort of weird.

I mean, technically it's correct.

But when you just look at this power spectrum of this amplitude spectrum, it would be difficult to

know that this is what the time domain signal looks like purely based on this, the shape of this spectrum.

It's also you can see the amplitude is considerably lower compared to the actual amplitude.

So the amplitude here is one, but here it barely gets up to point one.

So it's around point one.

So it's around a tenth.

Now, that actually is a sensible result.

And the reason why that's sensible is if you think about where in this signal we have a six hertz sine

wave, well, that's six hertz sine wave is going to appear just around here somewhere.

And it's only going to be, you know, a few cycles because here we are below six hertz and here we're

faster than six hertz.

So it's only actually at six hertz for a relatively brief period of time.

So this result does make sense.

Of course, that's the correct result.

But the point is, which I hope you agree, that the more you add these non-state parties to the signal,

the kind of weirder and harder to easily interpret these power spectra become.

All right.

So now what I'd like to do is show you a few examples of rhythmic, non sinusoidal time series and the

effects that those have on the resulting amplitude spectrum.

So I'm giving you three options here.

These are just some funny looking functions that I came up with.

You can see some of them are generated by just playing around with these trigonometric functions.

So what I do is take a cosine and then I embedded into a sign and that's kind of the basis of all these

here.

There's another cosine embedded into a sign here.

This is a sign that into a cosine and taking it to the power of four and so on.

So and then we're going to plot the signal in the time domain and the non normalized amplitude spectrum

in the frequency domain.

So notice, I'm not applying any of the two normalization factors here.

So I'm not dividing by NP, I'm not multiplying by two.

And that is totally fine because what I care about for this particular exercise is not the values themselves,

but the shape, the overall shape of the frequency domain response.

So let's run all of this code that's actually going to overwrite these signals here.

So we are dealing with this final signal here.

Here's what it looks like in the time to me.

It has these long peaks up here, these kind of plateaus and a very narrow trough over here.

And OK, so I see already this is an error.

Not sure if, you know, sometimes I, I intentionally put these mistakes in the code.

So you find them and sometimes I wonder if that was an intentional mistake or if that was just I was

purely an accident.

So the X axis label is frequency and why not also give this a Y axis label?

Now, this is going to be amplitude, but it's not the same amplitude as the actual signals.

I'm going to write a U for arbitrary units.

So when you write a you dot, that means arbitrary units and that basically informs the reader or whoever

is looking at this plot, the viewer, that they should just ignore the actual values and what they

should pay attention to is the overall shape of the distribution.

So it's pretty interesting to see that we get this strongly rhythmic signal, which is kind of like

a sine wave, but it's not a pure sine wave.

And that gives us these harmonics at these integer multiples of the base frequency, which is two in

this case.

All right.

So let's see.

Let's try this second signal here.

So I'm going to rerun all of this code.

And here's what that wacky looking signal looks like.

Pretty neat.

Pretty interesting.

Again, you see that there are some pretty strong rhythmic components.

There are features in this signal that are repeating over time, but it's definitely not a pure sine

wave.

And here's what it's power spectrum looks like.

It's a multi aphasic multipack spectrum.

And then let's see, I'm super curious to see what this other signal looks like, because I forget exactly

what these things are.

Let's see.

So, OK, so this is also pretty interesting.

This is closer to the first example that I showed, which was this third signal here.

So, again, we have a strongly rhythmic signal that is not a pure sine wave and it's amplitude spectrum

is Multiphasic.

We get a bunch of harmonics here.

Harmonics are always important features to look for in a power spectrum or an amplitude spectrum.

Harmonics refer to energy at integer multiples of a base frequency.

So here we have the base frequency is one and then we get also energy at two and three and four.

And then with this one, I think the bass frequency ended up being two.

And then he saw these energy peaks at multiples of two.

So four, six, eight and 10.

And you've also seen these kind of harmonics before with line noise.

So there was that narrow, high peak of energy at 50 hertz and then a small peak at one hundred hertz

and then one hundred and fifty hertz, two hundred hertz and so on.

So Harmonix can be a little bit tricky to interpret whenever you see Harmonix in the data, you should

always be suspicious.

You should always be immediately thinking about the possibility that it's actually one signal and you

have nonscientist realities or non-state scenarios, and that is what's producing the harmonics.

But the reason why it's a little bit tricky is just having harmonics on its own does not necessarily

mean that you have a non sinusoidal signal.

For example, I could have generated two pure sine waves, one at one hertz and one at two hertz, maybe

another small one at three hertz, and some them all together.

And you would still get a power spectrum that looks like this.

So I hope to have convinced you in this video and the previous video that when you have non stationary

in the time domain signal, the frequency domain signal can become a little bit tricky to interpret.

That is a strong motivation for moving beyond static spectral analysis and into time frequency analyses.

And that's kind of the pivot to go into the next section of the course.

But before then, there's still more I would like to tell you about static spectral analyses.

So keep watching.