Let's have a look at Welches method in practice.

We are going to test out Welches method on Fais slip data.

What does that mean, phase data?

Well, let's start by having a look at the signal and that will give us some insight.

So here we set a sampling rate and a time vector.

Here is our signal.

It is a pure sine wave.

It goes from it.

It has a frequency of 10 hertz and then here it concatenated.

So I'm using the square brackets here for a concatenation.

So we have a sine wave and then another sine wave that's almost exactly the same, except time is going

backwards.

Now, it's not really immediately intuitive what this means or what kind of signal this would create

or what is the deal with this phase loop thing.

So let's just have a look at this thing.

So here is our signal now.

On the one hand, it is a pure 10 hertz sine wave all the way through.

But you can see that there's something funny happening here and we get this sudden change in the face

value.

That's what a phase slip refers to.

A phase slip is a sudden change in the phase of value.

So what is going to happen when we create the amplitude spectrum of this signal?

And that's what we're doing here.

So this is a little bit of inline coding.

So here I define the vector of frequencies that's going to go in the X coordinates for the bar function

and then the Y values or the height of the bars is going to be the 50 of the signal, the amplitude

and then multiplied by two.

All right.

So let's take a look.

Essentially, this is just the static FFT.

Now, this looks really, really weird right here.

We have the signal.

It is a pure sine wave at 10 hertz and then another pure sine wave at 10 hertz.

And yet the sine wave component, the amplitude at 10 hertz is basically, well, OK, it's not exactly

zero, but it's really small.

It's very small.

And in fact, we see a lot higher energy at neighboring frequencies.

Now, why is that the case?

The reason why that's the case is that here the second part of this signal has the sine wave that is

turned around backwards because time is going backwards here.

So imagine when you take a pure sine wave at 10 hertz and then just in this part of the time window,

it's going to correlate perfectly with a 10 hertz sine wave.

And in this part of the sine window r the time window, it's also going the signal is also going to

correlate perfectly with a 10 hertz sine wave.

However, the phase at which these two parts of the signal are correlated with the 10 hertz sine wave

is completely different.

They are phase opposite this part and this part, our phase opposite.

So when you have one 10 hertz sine wave going all the way through, it's going to be that correlation

that the product is going to be basically zero.

It turns out, you know, it's not exactly zero, but it's very close to zero.

OK, so another illustration of how a non stationary gives you a result of the 48 transform that is

technically accurate.

This is the correct result, but it is hard to interpret.

It's weird.

It doesn't quite look right.

All right.

So let's see now for Welches method.

So the question is, are we going to get a better interpretation of what's happening in the signal when

we use Welches method?

So what we are going to do.

Let me scroll down here.

So we're going to loop over time because we're going to extract a little piece of the data.

So here we define some temporal time indices for extracting a little snippet of data.

Here we take part of the data and then we do the 48 transform on that little snippet of the data tapering.

So applying a taper and then we are adding that result.

So the amplitude spectrum onto this other variable here that I'm calling welched spec.

OK, so that's the general idea.

And then that result is going to get plotted over here.

So let's go back and see what we need.

So we have Wenling.

So this is the length of the window.

So I'm using window length of 500 points.

Now it's important to realize that I'm specifying this or I'm using this variable in terms of points,

not in terms of milliseconds and happens to work out in this case that because we've specified the sampling

rate to be a thousand hertz, then 500 points is also five hundred milliseconds.

And here is these skipping variables.

So we are going to take Effie's of 500 points here and then the next window is going to go.

So the first window will go from one to five hundred and then the second window will go from one hundred

and one, so basically 100 to 600 and then two hundred to seven hundred and so on.

So we're having an overlap of 80 percent.

So then here we are defining a vector of frequencies for these small windows windows.

So this is called Hertz l.

I think this L is probably four little.

And the reason why we need a separate Hertz variable here compared to what we had here is that here.

So that DC is of course the same, the sampling rate is the same.

But here the the end of the FFT was the length of the signal.

And here the end of the 50 is actually the the window length.

So this small length here.

OK, so let's run that, run all of this and then we need to let's see, we need to initialize this.

So how big is this vector going to be?

This is going to be the results, the amplitude spectrum from Welches method.

Well, it's going to be the length of Hertz little.

And then this is just going to be a vector, if you like.

You could also save each one of these individual spectra.

But, uh, the way that I've set up the code here, we're not actually saving the individual spectra

from each little snippet of data.

We are just adding to Welches spectrum.

OK, and then here is the Hohn taper.

So you can see it's a cosine that's the key part.

It's a cosine of two pi and then this ends up being TI.

And then the rest of these things are just kind of normalization factors.

Let's see what this hand window looks like.

Open up a new figure and plot H when.

So here's what this Hohn taper looks like.

Again, as I mentioned in the previous video, it looks a bit like a Gaussian.

You could also run this analysis using a Gaussian as a taper.

The results will be nearly identical.

It would be extremely similar in general.

When you're doing Welches method or short time for a transform, you will find that there is a big difference

between using and not using a taper.

But if you use different kinds of tapers, that tends not to matter so much.

All right.

So let's see here we are looping over and I think basically everything is done for us here.

I don't think there's any mistakes.

So let's see here we are extracting the time windows to go from t'ai that's looping index to itself,

plus the window length.

And then we get a little bit of the signal multiplied by the the hand taper and then add to the spectrum,

the amplitude spectrum and then here this and been so and Binz is initialized to one.

And then here we are dividing by and bins to get an average.

So essentially we are summing up more and more spectra on top of each other and then we want to divide

by M so we just have to add this thing to one.

Let's see, let's run all of this code and no matlab errors.

Always a good sign here.

We divide and drum roll.

Are you making a drum roll while you're watching this?

I hope so.

Let's see.

OK, so we get something that looks really, really bizarre.

And now I see that I actually made a mistake when I initialized this variable here.

So I initialize this to be a row vector.

However, a column vector.

However, this ended up being a row vector, so ended up giving me a matrix of two hundred fifty one

by two hundred fifty one.

So that was not the intended action.

Let's see, let's try running all of this again and OK, now we get a row vector so that's good.

All right.

And now we get to see the result.

OK, so here we see.

There's a couple of things to note.

First of all, you can see that the frequency resolution is noticeably smaller than the frequency resolution

here.

The frequency resolution here is much higher because we have more data points here.

We have fewer data points.

I remember this is a pretty restricted range that we're looking at here.

It's just five to 15 hertz.

And we could plot this from zero all the way up to five hundred hertz.

And then we also see, importantly, that the 10 hertz component is really large.

This is the, well, relatively large.

This is the largest frequency component is happening at ten hertz.

Now, we still get positive energy at these neighboring frequencies.

And that is happening because this non stationary here.

Is getting into many windows, so it's not in the first window or the second window, but by the time

we get to the windows, starting at 600, going all the way up to 1100, this non stationary is is getting

in there.

So it's you know, it's maybe like a third of the windows that we're using here are actually getting

into this resulting power spectrum.

So what can we do about that, if you like?

I would encourage you to play around with these parameters, in particular this window length, and

see if you can change the window length and possibly also the skip variable to make this look closer

to what you would expect it to look like.

And what you expect this to look like is that nearly all of the energy is happening at 10 hertz and

there's very little energy happening at other frequencies.

Now, this kind of, you know, playing around with these parameters, that's possible here because

we know what the absolute ground truth is.

We simulated the signal.

We know exactly what to expect in the results.

Of course, in real data, you know, you might have some intuitions, but you don't really know what

are the true underlying dynamics.

So you just have to intuit or guess what good parameters, appropriate parameters would be and then

apply those parameters consistently to all of your data.

Anyway, the point of this video was to introduce you to the implementation of Welches method manually

in Matlab.

I hope you found that interesting.

Stay tuned in the next video, the next two videos.

Actually, we are going to apply Welters method to real EEG and V1 FFP data sets.