Well, we're going to do in this video is appli Welches method to the resting state EEG data that we

have worked with before.

So let's start by loading in this math file, typing who's in the command window.

And you will remember this data file from a few videos ago.

It's around one hundred and twenty thousand seconds or so time points.

It's around two minutes.

So a hundred and twenty seconds.

And we have a sampling rate of just over a kilohertz.

So let's see here.

We define a time vector and here we plot the data.

And we've already seen these data before.

It's in a black line now.

I guess just to keep things a little bit fresh, keep it a little bit variable.

So let's see here.

I'm doing one big FFE.

In fact, this is the same thing that I have done in a previous video.

By the way, you also notice here, I'm actually not multiplying by two, so I'm ignoring one of the

two normalization factors.

Again, as I mentioned, I think several times already, that's totally fine.

These normalization factors are optional and they do not change the shape of the spectrum.

They only change the exact values on the y axis.

So if you see that these normalization factors are missing or if you don't apply them yourself, it's

totally fine.

You just have to be mindful that you don't want to interpret the Y axis numbers, literally.

OK, so anyway, that is for these static power spectrum here we get the Welches method and I'm implementing

this manually and you'll see that that's in contrast to code later on where I'm going to use the Matlab

function P Welch.

OK, so here I'm defining some variables.

So we say that the window length is going to be one times s rate.

What does that mean?

Well, it means that we are going to have one second.

So the sampling rate tells us the number of points in one second.

So if we wanted windows of, let's say, I don't know, three point four seconds, then you would write

something like this.

So this will give us a window length of three point four seconds.

Obviously, when the video is over, I encourage you to play around with all these parameters and see

how that affects the resulting spectrum.

But for now, I'm going to leave it as a window length of one second and the number of points of overlap.

So how much overlap there is between successive windows?

Is the sampling rate divided by two, which means one half of a second.

So let's see.

Run some of this code here.

I'm just defining the window onsets.

So the onset of the window times and then here I'm defining the Herts vectors.

In a previous video, I called this Hertz L for little.

And I guess here I'm calling it W Welch, but you can see that the Zero and Nykvist are the same as

for the full Fourier transform, but the number of points of the frequency resolution here is an over

two plus one, so it's around 60000 points.

And here it is much smaller.

It is the window length divided by two.

So here it's only around 500 points.

And then here is the Hohn window for tapering the data and then we initialize the EEG powers.

So power and then W is for Welch, OK?

And then I'm not going to go through all of these lines individually, partly because I encourage you

to do that, and also partly because this is essentially the same code that you saw a few videos ago.

So let's see.

And then we divide by the length of window on set.

So essentially, we're just dividing by and.

So then here we are doing some plotting and then we can see both of these spectra on top of each other,

so we get in black is the static FFE like the full F.T. And in red, we have Welches method here and

be good to have a and double parenthesis.

So you can see that overall they show comparable results.

But the Welches method result is much smoother.

In part it's much smoother because it has a lower frequency resolution and in part it's smoother because

that's the nature of the Welches method that we are taking a tiny little piece of data and then averaging

over lots and lots of little data windows.

So that averaging process will necessarily smooth over a lot of noise, a lot of smaller local features

and a lot of non stationary.

And that's partly why you see this kind of choppy spectrum here in black.

All right.

So here now, Downbelow, I'm going to be using the Matlab function P Welch, which computes the Welches

spectrum.

Now, this function is contained inside the signal processing toolbox.

So if you do not have the signal processing toolbox, in fact you won't be able to run this line of

code.

So that's why I provide both the code for the manual Welches method and for the Matlab P Welch method.

Now, if you do have the signal processing toolbox, then I generally recommend using the P Welched

method instead of using all of this business.

You can see, you know, just a lot more code here and the Welch method.

So the P function also allows for providing a lot of useful inputs.

So it also looks a little bit different.

This red line in the black line look kind of flat down here and here.

The output of Matlab speech function is continuously decreasing.

And the primary difference is that this gives us a power spectrum that is normalized to DB.

So this is a linear scale.

This is a logarithmic scale.

So with these logarithmic scales, as the values get small here, they just sort of tend towards zero.

And here in this DB scale, they go much, much deeper down.