In this video, we are going to apply Welches method to the V1 LFG laminar dataset.

Now, this isn't a whole lot different from what we did in the previous video where we applied Welches

method to the resting state EEG data.

However, I do want to discuss a few new points here that I didn't mention earlier.

So let's start by loading in this V one data set and having a look at what we have.

So you will recall this KDDI data set.

It is 16 by 5400 by 200.

That corresponds to 16 channels, fifteen time points and 200 trials or stimulus repetitions.

Now, notice also that this matrix here, this variable 60, is single precision data.

I have mentioned in a previous video that for many signal processing routines in Matlab, it's useful

and sometimes necessary to transform the data into full floating point precision data, which here would

be called double precision data.

Having your data in single precision can be useful for saving smaller files to the disk.

And that's because single precision takes up less space, takes up less memory than double precision.

So you have to make sure that you're not actually losing real information.

However, we do need the double or it's useful in many cases to have double precision data in order

to guarantee more accurate results.

This is particularly important for methods like filtering and Igen decomposition and also for the FFE.

So here I am converting the CSD data to double precision and if I type who's again, then you can see

that the attribute of this variable is now double.

So here it was single, here it was double and you notice that the size has also doubled.

So we're taking up twice as much room in Matlab as memory buffer.

So we're going to do here is compute Welches method using the function PILCH.

I've mentioned in the previous video that if you don't have the signal processing toolbox, you won't

be able to use this PLG function.

However, it's not a problem.

You can just use, you know, this this loop of code that I showed previously.

Now, what I want to show you here is that using the P welched function does not necessarily guarantee

that we are going to get a plot.

So in the previous video, I just called the P.

Welch function and it generated a figure, generated a plot all on its own here.

We didn't get a plot.

I just ran that line of code and no figure was produced.

That's because I requested an output.

So when you request at least one output from this function, then you are not going to get a direct

plot.

Instead, you get the data that you can use to make your own plot.

So we have two outputs here, which is the power spectrum and Hertz, which is a vector of frequencies

in Hertz.

So Hertz is a vector of 501 elements.

Now, when we look at the size of X, it's actually a matrix of five hundred and one by two hundred.

So why is this a full matrix when previously I was computing the Welches method manually and I wasn't

getting a matrix, I was just getting a vector.

Well, let's think about this.

So 500 and one obviously corresponds to the number of frequencies and what is this two hundred correspond

to.

Right.

That two hundred is the number of channels are sorry, the number of trials in this dataset.

And you can see what we are inputting here into the P function.

It's the CCDs matrix for this channel, all time points and all trials.

All right.

So let's see here.

I'm going to plot the ERP, which you've seen many times already before.

And here in this subplot here, we want to plot the Hertz vector by the average of the power spectra

over all of the trials.

So clearly, this is not going to work.

In fact, we get an error.

Vectors must be the same length.

There's no reason to take the average frequency.

That's not a sensible thing to do.

So mean here.

And then the question is, well, let's just try this.

Hmm.

We still get an error and it's actually the same error vectors must be the same length.

What is causing the error here?

What's causing the error here is that by default, the mean function will take the average over the

first dimension.

But in fact, we want to average over trials, which is the second dimension.

So let's see what this looks like now.

All right.

So here we see a nice smooth.

Our function, you see lots of interesting multiple peaks happening in the general gammer range, around

40 to 60 hertz.

And again, just from looking at this power spectrum here, we actually have no idea where in time these

gamma bursts are happening.

To find out where in time these are happening, we will need to extend our static spectral analyses

into the world of time frequency analyses.

And of course, that is the main goal of the next section of this course.