This code file here contains the problem set for this section of the course, there are eight problems

that you need to solve for this section.

I hope that you have already gone through several or maybe hopefully all of these problems already.

What I'm going to do now over the next two videos is walk you through my solutions.

So I'm going to try to do the first four problems in this video and then the second four problems in

the next video.

Let's see how it goes with time.

So let's start with number one, generate 10 seconds of data with four sine waves of different frequencies

between one and 30 hertz and different amplitudes.

OK, and then plot each of the sound waves and then the sum sine wave with a little bit of noise and

a lot of noise.

This is actually the important part here.

What we are going to do in this exercise is explore the effects of noise on the time domain signal and

on the frequency domain signal.

So you can see that there's a lot of missing code here.

There's a lot of blanks here.

So you can really define these variables mostly however you want.

There are some reasonable constraints, like probably a sampling rate of point O one is not really a

good sampling rate because we need to simulate Steinway's between one and 30 hertz.

Likewise, a sampling rate of some ludicrously high number is technically fine.

That's well above the Nykvist frequency that we would need to simulate wave up to 30 hertz.

But this is going to take a ludicrous amount of memory.

So let's go for a sampling rate of one thousand hertz.

That seems like a pretty good number to use.

Then we need to define the frequencies we want for sine wave.

So we're going to need four numbers here.

So I'm just kind of semi randomly pick three, 10, 15 and 30.

And then the amplitudes are also kind of random.

They can be basically whatever.

Uh, and then.

Well, so there's basically one constraint is that these should be positive numbers.

So we don't want to have negative amplitudes.

Technically that will work.

That will just impose a flip on the sine wave.

But we should stick to positive numbers.

They certainly shouldn't be zero.

And because it just means we're not generating that sine wave.

And it's probably also a good idea to let these numbers be relatively large.

So they will kind of all pop out from even a small amount of noise.

So let's leave this as five and then the phases, this part really, you know, this doesn't really

have so much of an effect on the results.

In fact, we're not going to be looking at the phase spectrum here.

So these phases don't have any effect on the results.

But I think this is here just to give you some more opportunity to work with, uh, generating sine

waves, using all of the parameters.

So I'm specifying these phase values in terms of PI.

But you can use any number you want.

They will be interpreted in the in the function here as radians.

OK, then we specify our time vector.

It's going to go from minus one to plus one in units of the sampling rate or one over the sampling rate.

OK, so we need to initialize the correct size, so let's see, we need to we're going to need to plot

all of the individual sine wave.

So that means that we will need to store all of the individual sine waves.

So this is going to be.

So now it could be frequency's by time or time by frequencies.

And here we don't really know.

But looking down here, we can see that this variable is going to have frequency in the first dimension.

So that means that this can be hard coded to four.

But I think it's better to have this soft coded to the length of this vector.

Frex, of course, you could have also used amplitude or phases in here and then the length of time

is the other one.

OK, so let's see what's going on here.

So we set this particular sine wave to be equal to the amplitude and I already see this is a vector.

We need this to be the f f element of this vector amplitude and sign of I.

OK, so this is tricky because technically this is correct here, but I is not a good variable name

to use for the imaginary operator for reasons that I explained in whenever it was that video that I

talked about generating complex numbers.

So let's see, this should be a sign of I.

And actually, wait a minute, this is just OK, these are real valued sideways, so we don't even need

this.

I think that's just there to confuse us.

Actually, what we need is to pay.

So we need sign of two pi f t plus Theta.

So not plus F.I..

This is just the looping index.

There should be phases and then f I like this.

All right, so let's start running some code.

Make sure that things are working so far.

So, so far so good.

So here we have a little bit of noise and a lot of noise.

So the idea here is that we are going to generate actually we can even guess what the idea is by scrolling

down, uh, let's see.

Well, then it's getting into the next one.

OK, well, maybe there's too much code missing, but essentially what's going to happen is we are going

to generate noise that's going to be the same size as the some sine wave.

And then we are going to add a small amount of noise or a large amount of noise to that sound sign wave,

so let's see.

So this is going to be random numbers that were won by actually, I think we can just do it like this

the size of time times.

So this is going to be random numbers between our with a mean of zero and a variance of one.

And I'm going to scale them up by 10.

Now, you don't know apriori that that is a decent parameter, a decent scaling parameter for a little

bit of noise.

That's something that I know because I've already solved this exercise.

So then lots of noise.

This is going to be the same thing, except I'm going to make this scaled up by a factor of 50.

All right, and then let's see, we want to run these two lines of code, then we want to plot the constituent

sideways without noise.

So we want to plot time by the sine waves.

And it's going to be each of these numbers and then all of the time points.

So it looks like here we're also hard coding this to be four, which is fine.

So let's see.

We should see all of the individual sine waves at the frequencies that we specified.

And we can also check these amplitudes just to make sure that this is implemented correctly.

So we have five and then 15 and looks like that's 15 and then five again and seven.

And that also looks plausibly like it gets up to a maximum of seven.

All right.

So now we want to plot these some sine wave with a little bit of noise.

So that is actually not this.

This is just plotting the noise here.

We want to plot all of the sine waves.

So some of variables sine waves.

Uh, let's see, what did I call this thing sine with an E?

OK, sine waves plus a little noise.

So in here, if you like, you know, we want to sum over the first dimension, which is the default

for the sum function.

So if you like, you could write comma one.

It's not strictly necessary, but sometimes adding these extra optional parameters are useful to help

make your code a little bit more readable.

All right.

So let's see.

So that looks good.

Here we see our some sine wave.

And actually, I'm curious to see what this looks like without any noise.

So I'm going to plot this again.

And here you see.

OK, so this is what it looks like with no noise.

And then we add noise and well, it looks a little noisy and you can still see the dominant sinusoidal

components in here.

All right.

And then we want to add a lot of noise.

So that's basically the same thing here.

So I'm going to copy and paste and this variable becomes what was the name of this variable?

Lots of noise.

There you go.

So here, notice that the underlying signal is exactly the same in this subplot and in this subplot.

So it's the same signal and it's just a different amount of noise, you can also see the Y axis is quite

a bit different.

So it's like minus one to plus one hundred.

And this is in the range of like minus 30 to plus 30 or so.

All right.

Very nice.

So that was the first exercise.

Not so bad.

So now we want to compute the power spectrum of the simulated time series using the FFG and plot the

results and well, it doesn't say exactly which results, but presumably it's going to be the amplitude

or power spectrum.

So separately for a little noise and a lot of noise, and then we set the X axis limit to go up to thirty

five hertz.

So let's see what we're doing inside this loop.

So we have this loop.

It goes over the two noise conditions and then we say, well, if it's noise one, so if it's the first

noise condition, then we're going to take the fifty of I think this is going to be exactly this thing

up here.

So all of the sine wave components summed together, plus a little bit of noise.

And then if so, if this is false, which means that noise equals two, then we're going to compute

this with lots of noise.

OK, very good.

So then we compute the frequencies in Hertz and I'm going to use that shortcut that I often use.

So this is going to go I'm going to specify frequencies from zero to s rate in steps.

I wonder, do we have a I think we never created a variable for the number of time points probably would

have been useful because, you know, if you're going to take the length of some variable, if it's

if you're only doing this once, then it's generally not worth creating a separate variable.

But if you're going to do it multiple times and it's usually worth the effort to make a separate variable,

so points, this is just good coding practice to avoid using these kinds of functions multiple times.

Let's see.

So, uh, we need.

Then here, so we go from zero to the Nykvist to the sampling rate in endpoints steps, and as a quick

reminder, this formula or these frequencies are valid only up until the nightclothes frequency, which

means one half of this vector.

So the first half of this vector is valid.

The second half of this vector above Nykvist, which in this particular case is five hundred hertz,

is not valid, is are not interpretable frequencies, because in fact the frequencies are negative.

OK, and then we want to plot the amplitude spectrum.

So we plot Hertz by let's go for two times abs of F and how about I make this a black line and maybe

I'll set the line width to be about two just to make a little bit thicker.

So then we specify the X and Y axis labels and here I say the X limb goes from zero to one.

So that is definitely wrong because the instructions were very clear that we should plot frequencies

up to thirty five hertz.

So let's see.

So this should say X limn up to thirty five.

OK, and then what do we have here.

So the Y axis limit goes up to the maximum amplitude times one point two.

So this is actually just a little bit higher than whatever is the largest amplitude.

But what is this amplitude parameter?

This actually comes from all the way up here, which means if we are going to use this the time domain

amplitude, then this has to be then we need the Fourier transform result to be normalized according

to the number of points so divided by points.

And then here also apply this normalization.

All right.

So let's try running this code and keep our fingers crossed.

All right.

So we don't get any errors, which is always the first thing to look for when working with new code.

And we can see here is the amplitude spectrum from the FFE with a little bit of noise and with a lot

of noise.

And then the question is, can we better detect the features of the signal, the prominent features

of the signal in the time domain or in the frequency domain?

I think I'll move this figure out here so it's easy to compare them next to each other.

So I think, you know, we can certainly see this dominant component.

I guess this is probably let's see, this is one, two, three, four or five, six.

Yeah.

So what you're actually looking at here, the dominant component, rhythmic component of this signal

that you see here is this component here.

It's 10 hertz.

It's the highest amplitude.

And it's also slow enough that you can easily pick it out and you don't really see the other spectral

components in the time domain.

But of course, you do see them super easily in the frequency domain.

And I think the main point of this exercise here is to show that when you add more noise, it the signal

might still be a little bit easier to interpret in the frequency domain.

But just going into the frequency domain is no guarantee that you are going to be able to interpret

everything in the signal.

So you can still add a bunch of noise and the frequency response can still be hard to interpret.

For example, if I just showed you this power spectrum of this amplitude spectrum without telling you

anything about the signal, without showing you this spectrum, you would definitely think that this

is a real part of the signal.

You would probably think that this is a real part of the signal, but I'm pretty sure you would not

guess that there was a real component at 15 hertz.

And I know I don't know about this one.

You might think that this one, it reflects noise.

Now, part of the reason why looking at a signal in the frequency domain can be more insightful than

in the time domain is because this noise is broadband.

This is broadband white noise.

So it has a flat spectrum or the expected spectrum shape is flat.

Of course, when we sample a finite amount of noise, it ends up being, you know, a little bit non,

not totally flat.

But the thing is that all of the broadband energy gets concentrated into all of the time pointier.

But when we compute the so when we do a for a decomposition of the white noise, all of the energy gets

distributed over all the frequencies from zero all the way up to Nykvist, in this case, five hundred

hertz.

So a you know, a moderate amount of noise in the time domain actually gets.

Repeated across lots and lots and lots of frequencies in the frequency domain.

So that's why using a spectral analysis can help you reduce the noise, basically because the noise

is being spread out in the frequency domain, whereas it's concentrated in the time domain.

All right.

Very nice.

So that was the first two exercises.

Let's move on to the third and I'll close these windows to give us some more space, compute the power

spectrum of data from Electrodes seven in the FP data set.

So let's see.

The first thing we want to do is compute the power spectrum separately for each trial and then average

the power spectra together across all the trials.

And then we want to average the trials together first and then compute the power spectrum.

So essentially we are computing the power spectrum and averaging over trials in both cases, but we

do it in a different order.

So first we average or so first we take the FFT and then we average the power spectra.

And second, we average first and then we compute the power spectrum.

OK, and then basically we compare the results and maybe we will be surprised.

So we start by loading in the laminar data set, and actually I think I'll even clear the workspace

just to make sure that we are not interfering with our previous or that, you know, our previous work

is not going to interfere with us here.

OK, so load the data set, pick a channel, and then we want to take the footage of all trials individually

and note that we can do this all in one line.

So you can do this in a loop, totally fine.

You can loop over trials and take the 50 and then extract the amplitude or the power.

But remember, I showed you in an earlier video that the FFE function also accepts inputs, matrix inputs.

So let's see.

We want squeeze.

I'm going to squeeze out the Singleton dimension here.

And actually I will talk briefly about what this what this squeeze function means, because it's a bit

confusing and people often ask me this question.

So let's start by looking at the size of this matrix.

So what do we expect the size of this answer to be?

So CCDs starts off as three dimensional and then we are extracting one particular channel and then all

time points and all trials.

Now, intuitively, you would probably think that this should be a two dimensional matrix because we

are just getting the time trial data from one particular channel.

However, in Matlab, this is still considered a three dimensional matrix.

So we still have this extra dimension with only one element in it.

This is called a singleton dimension, and the point of the squeeze function is to squeeze out or get

rid of Singleton dimensions.

So now you can see this is really just a two dimensional matrix after using the squeeze function.

So that is relevant here, because if we want to make sure that we are taking the fight over time,

then we need to compute the FDA along the first dimension here.

But if we don't squeeze, then we're going to have to compute the F.T. along the second dimension here.

And then this will also be a three dimensional matrix with a singleton dimension and so on, so it can

get a little bit confusing.

So therefore squeezing is often a good idea.

Let's see.

And then I think I want to be sure that we are really competing the FFE over time.

So we say, F.T., we're going to leave the end of the 50 set to the default, which is the number of

time points, and then we want to specify the dimension.

So I'm going to say squeeze.

And I'll remember from this matrix, we want to take the FDA along the second dimension.

But from this matrix with the squeeze, we actually want to compute the FDA along the second dimension.

And then here we want to say I'm going to add this normalization factor.

So I'm going to add a variable called points, and that's going to be the length of time VEC, which

is the time vector that comes inside this matte file that's so divided by P and S like this.

OK, and then here, notice the order of operations.

That's pretty important here.

So we have the well this is incorrectly labeled pal specked separate.

This is not yet the power spectrum.

This is actually the Fourier spectrum.

But whatever.

So we have the Fourier spectrum, the complex for the coefficients from now.

I'll run this so you can see what the size of this is.

So this is 1500 by two hundred.

So 1500 frequencies and 200 trials.

And then we are first taking the magnitude so abs and then multiplying by two, which is just a scaling

factor and then averaging over.

OK, this is wrong.

I assume that you got this as well.

We want to average over the second dimension, which is trials.

OK, so that's going to give us one power spectrum, one vector.

Let's see.

And then we want to average first and then take the fifty of the average.

So that's going to be first the mean of sixty and then trying to use all of the time points, all of

the trials.

And then we want to average over the third dimension.

And let's also see what the size of this matrix is.

So this is a two dimensional.

So this is a vector.

So this part's OK.

We don't need to use the squeeze function because we don't have any singleton dimensions in here.

So there's always this one here because this is how Matlab represents vectors basically as matrices,

where one dimension has an as only one element in it.

OK, so then I am going to directly put this into the to function and also divide by the number of points

here.

So then this gives us the complex Fourier coefficients from which I think we don't even need this separate

line here, I'm just going to put this right here.

So two times ABSs of all of this business.

So that gives us the power spectrum of the average.

So you can see that, unfortunately, sometimes my variable labeling schemes are not always super helpful.

Like, for example, this one I've already discussed.

This is not actually the power spectrum.

And furthermore, it looks like we are computing amplitude.

Let me see if this oh, this actually does say power spectrum.

OK, so let's go about squaring all of these things.

So I'm going to square the amplitude values.

So then the, uh, let's see then the variable naming convention is actually correct.

So and then I will also square all of these terms so that they become power.

All right.

Very good.

Everything is internally consistent.

Everyone is happy.

Let's see.

Hertz is going from zero to Nykvist in MN over to plus one steps.

There's nothing wrong with saying length time back, but I've already created a variable called points,

so I'm just going to replace that they're.

OK.

And then let's see, uh, I think so this part looks fine.

And here we go.

OK, so this is averaging done after the FFE on each trial and this is the FFE done on the trial average.

This is quite striking.

The difference between these two plots is quite striking.

I think I'm going to make these lines thicker just to make sure they're really visible on the screen,

maybe even for this, maybe a little bit excessive.

Some point.

You know, these like you can you can set these lines to be superduper wide, but it becomes like a

big cartoonish after a while.

So you can't even see anything here.

But four looks pretty reasonable.

I think I'll set that back to for.

All right, so quite striking, these differences are really, really striking.

This is also the scale factor here is much higher than it is here.

So let's see.

I'm going to do I'm going to say why equals get get Kurn axis y limn.

So this is going to return the Y axis limit for this plot and then I'm going to apply that to this plot.

So now I'm going to say so I click on this subplot here.

So this becomes active and then I say, let's get current axis y lim equals y limb.

So essentially that's just making sure that both of these spectra are on the same y axis.

So they are easy to interpret.

Now there are a few features of these power spectra that are consistent or similar between these two

methods of averaging like this one over FBC, one over F, and it looks like there's a peak here at

one point, five hertz.

But I don't believe this is a real peak.

I think we have one over F in theory in the data, but then the data were high pass filter and then

appart.

So we actually don't get any information below around one point five hertz.

So I don't think this is a real actual peak in the data.

OK, but obviously the most prominent difference is that we see this robust gamma multi peak gamma oscillations

here that we do not see in the trial average or.

Well, I guess they are they're a little bit it's hard to see, but they're all the way down here.

And in fact, maybe I will increase this so then we can highlight this better, so it's see three and

three, maybe I'll even do it twice by four.

So I'm basically just scaling these things up.

OK, so you can see that there are still gamma oscillations in the trial average.

In fact, we've seen amplitude spectra from the trial average from Channel seven in previous videos.

But on the single trial data, it's much more robust.

So what does this mean?

How do we interpret this?

This is exactly the difference between phase locked and non phase locked activity that I discussed in

the first section of this course in the intro section of this course.

So we have a lot of gammer happening on each individual trial.

And some of that gamma that you see on each individual trial is phase locked.

And this is the part of the gamma oscillations that are phase locked.

And most of that gamma signal is non phase locked.

And that's why it shows up here when we take the safety of each trial individually.

But it doesn't show up here because here we are taking the 50 of the ERP and there we only see the phase

locked dynamics.

So this really highlights the importance of separating the ore, looking at the total signal, which

is the phase log, plus the non phase locked part of the signal and not restricting yourself to only

the ERP because there's so much information in the signal that is lost during the ERP averaging.

All right, so that is the interpretation of this difference, and I think that that's different, so.

Are you surprised?

I think the first time you see this, it might be quite surprising, but when you work with with brain

electrophysiology data more and more, you will not be surprised because there's really often a big

difference between the total signal, the phase log, plus the nine phase locked and just the phase

locked part of the signal.

Let's see.

So now we have exercise for and this is do the same thing.

But for electrode one, how do the results compare and does this depend on whether your average first.

OK, so essentially we're just repeating this analysis, but for a different channel.

So if you like, you could copy paste all this code.

But because there isn't really anything we need to change other than the channel, I'm also going to

make sure we put this in a different figure.

So Channel one, if I remember correctly, I do this with Channel One.

OK, so scroll up.

Right.

Well, we don't need to run all this code again, but that's OK.

All right.

So here we see.

OK, so now let me put these plots on the same axis and you can only see the scale differs quite a bit

from here to your oh, look at this from electrode box.

This is actually another little mistake in the code, which I didn't pick up.

So this should be or is the title should be.

We need to convert this into a string.

So this should be known to start chain to use.

All right.

And then I think I will only fix that for this just to show you that it works.

Now we say electrode one.

I'm not going to bother rerunning this figure.

OK, so let me put this into a different scale, let's try set get current access, Wiliam.

Let's go from zero to let's try 1000 because I don't really care so much about this stuff.

I want to focus more.

OK, about ten thousand.

I want to focus more on what's happening down here.

Uh, yeah, although maybe it is relevant to to see what's happening at this.

So this peak is at four point five hertz and let's see if this is the same peak at four point five or

so, in fact, even at this scale now.

OK, so now again, these are on the same scale.

So at this scale, you can see that there's a tiny peak here at two hearts and then a robust peak here

at four point five hertz.

And here you see this tiny little peak here at a, well, small but larger peak at two hertz and basically

is nonexistent at four point five hertz.

So this is quite striking.

And then let's see now, I'll try to zoom in so we can see this lower part.

Maybe let's try like four thousand and try again.

Four thousand.

OK, so maybe you can try two thousand.

I'd really like to be able to see something on this lower plot, but there's basically not much to be

seen here.

So we pick a different channel and we do the same analysis and we still see there's a lot of differences.

One thing that's striking, by the way, is the 50 hertz line noise, which you see on the single trial

data, but not on the trial average data.

Now, the reason why this happens is because the trial onsets are random with respect to the line noise.

So the line noise is just ongoing and the stimuli are not are not time locked to the electrical activity.

So when you first average over the trials in the time domain, you're also likely to eliminate or at

least strongly attenuate the line noise artifacts.

And here again, we see some interesting gamma peak here.

So narrowband signal at around 40 hertz.

And that's really totally absent from the trial average.

So whatever is happening in this channel, which is actually in the hippocampus, I believe so whatever

is happening in the hippocampus, it's all purely non phase locked that has really nothing to do or

it's not like phase reset by the visual stimulus.

But again, so I don't want to make too much of an anatomical interpretation.

I mostly want to highlight the huge difference in what you see in the electrophysiology data between

the total signal, including the non phase locked and what happens when you restrict yourself to only

looking at the phase locked signal.

All right.

Very nice.

So that was exercises one through four out of a total of eight.

So I'm going to stop this video now and then we are going to continue in the next video with the rest

of these exercises.

