All right, so continuing along with this problem that I am now going to get through, hopefully the

rest of the four problems, but we'll see if it starts taking really a long time, then I might even

break it up into another video.

So let's see.

This is problem five, of course, if you haven't already, I strongly encourage you to pause the video

or stop the video and get through as much of this code on your own as possible before coming to watch

me solve it.

All right.

So, hey, wouldn't it be fun to program the discrete time Fourier transform from scratch?

Yes, of course it would be fun.

So let's do that.

But don't worry, we are here doing it together.

So let's create a 20 element vector of random numbers and we use the hints and then we want to use the

FFE function at the end to verify that we've done the right thing.

Now you have notes for how to do this from previous videos in this course, but I encourage you not

to look back at your notes, not to cheat, basically, and instead to just try to do this from your

own knowledge.

So let's see.

We need to create a normalized time vector that is defined as zero to N minus one divided by N, not

divided by the sampling rate.

We don't even define the sampling rate, but divided by N, and that gives us a normalized vector that

starts from zero and it goes to almost one and it's one one divided by n less than one.

OK, and then we define our or we initialize the Fourier coefficients.

We have this loop over frequencies and we have NP frequencies for an endpoint signal.

So the first thing we do is create a complex valued sine wave for this frequency.

So that was the to the I k where K gets replaced by two times pi times the frequency, which is the

looping index minus one times time.

And I call that F time like this.

All right.

And then we compute the DOT product between this complex sine wave and the signal here.

So that is I'll use the dot function.

So dot of signal and the Fourier sign like this.

All right.

And let's see, let's run this code here from this loop here.

And we don't get any errors.

We can confirm that these are complex, valued results, which is good.

So then we.

So let's see now we have to divide by n to scale the coefficients.

So I write Fourier CofS equals Fourier clefs divided by NT.

Now if you like, you also could have put the divided by NT here.

This is doing the division element wise and this does it all at once in a vector.

The main reason why you know you would do it here outside the loop is because this is going to be the

result of the F.T. function, not this.

So the F.T. function is not going to divide by NT.

So you would have to do that on your own if you want.

Let's see.

And then we plot.

So we have the signal and the amplitude times two.

That all looks correct.

So here we go, this is our signal.

This is the amplitude spectrum and I mean, we don't really know how to interpret this.

This is pure noise in the time domain.

So, of course, we're going to get pure noise in the frequency domain.

So let's see for comparison, use the FFE function on the same data.

So F.T. Signal and then so now here I am dividing by NP because I also divided by NP here.

So run this and then we plot on top and we get the same results, which is pretty neat.

All right.

So that was pretty straightforward, that exercise.

Let's do the next one.

This is on zero padding and interpolation.

So compute the power spectrum of Channel seven from the V1 data set.

We've already done that in the previous video.

Take the power spectrum from each trial and then average over trials so that we've already done do this

without a loop.

We've already done this as well then.

OK, but here's something different.

Only use the data from zero to zero point five seconds.

So we're not using the entire data set, the entire trial period.

We're only using the time window from zero to one half of one second.

And then we have to answer what is the frequency resolution?

OK, and then zero.

So let's just let's start solving this part first and then we'll worry about the second part.

So here now, I've actually cleared out the data, so I need to load in the V1 data set again.

So load V1 Laminar.

And what we're doing here is finding the two time points that are closest to zero and point five in

the time VEC so we can see time.

Veck of T X is almost zero, not exactly zero and just around point five.

So here we set the NFTE.

So the number of points to use for the F fifty to be multiples of the length of the data.

I'm going to ignore this line of code for now.

This comes in a later part.

OK, so let's compute the power spectrum.

And now if you are really lazy, you can scroll up and copy and paste.

But between the two videos, I actually undid all of the changes that I made.

So so it's not possible for me to cheat.

I'm going to have to do this the hard way.

So let's see, does it say which channel we should.

Oh yeah.

It does say Channel seven.

So channel to use equals seven and find that little line of code.

So we want the power spectrum from this is going to be I'll start from the innermost part of this code

and work my way out.

So 60 channel to use all time points, all trials.

And then I want to take the fifty and I'm going to squeeze this to make sure that we will be computing

the fifty over d the dimension that we want to, which is the time dimension, which is going to be

the first dimension after squeezing out this singleton dimension.

Now here I can actually already add and FFE here, but here this NFTE is by default the way that it's

written here.

That's the same length as the number of time points.

So writing this is equivalent to this.

However, I know that in the future we want to change this.

OK, so this gives us the fee and then the wrong thing to do is to take the average over the second

dimension.

Why is this the wrong thing to do?

This is the wrong thing to do because now we are averaging together the complex value for coefficients,

which is not what we want.

We want to averaged together the power spectrum from each trial, not the complex Fourier coefficients

from each trial.

OK, so we need to first say, uh, two times Abha.

So I'm going to extract the amplitude here and then I have to go back here.

So let's see, that's the end parenthesis for ABS and then I'm going to square it to get power.

And now finally I can take the average over the second dimension.

So let's see that I run this note.

So let's run this and we get a vector.

And that is the right thing here.

And now let's see.

I think I can also set a new variable.

Four points equals length of time VEC and then I will divide the fifty results by.

Points.

OK, so and then we set the hertz, the frequencies vector to go from zero to Nykvist in and over two

plus one, and then here you just have to be mindful that the NT doesn't correspond to the number of

time points in the signal.

It corresponds to the number of 50 points that we want.

OK, and I see now that I didn't do this correctly.

So here I'm taking all of the time points when in fact we only want t idex one through T IDEX two.

And so in total this is going to be three hundred and eighty three points, which is good.

That's what we want.

So three hundred eighty three.

So let's see, so then we're going to make a plot in this figure and so we plot the power spectrum.

OK, I think this is all correct.

All right.

There you go.

So we see in the time range of zero two point five, we see this one over F again, I've already discussed

in previous videos that this is probably not a peak at a low frequency.

This is probably the one or F plus high pass filtering to attenuate this stuff.

And then so we see this one over off and then we see a peak here at around 40 hertz.

And by the way, it's pretty interesting that in the previous video we saw that when you take the the

Fourier transform, so the power spectrum of the total signals of the phase log plus the non-physical

parts, you get multiple peaks in the gamma band, whereas here we only see one peak.

So that tells us that all of the other gamma peaks are somewhere else in the in time.

So I'm going to this is not part of the instructions, but I'm just curious.

I'm going to change this time window from point five to one second and then maybe I'll put this in figure

seven so then we can directly compare and, uh, let's see.

So this is up to let's see, I'll set this up to 6000 here.

So then we can compare.

So set get current axis Wiliam from zero to six thousand.

So this is pretty interesting to see.

The difference between these two is just about the time window.

So we get in the earlier time window, that's kind of lower gamma response.

And then later on in time, half second later, we get a stronger gamma response and it's at higher

frequencies.

OK, so let me undo this because this is the thing that we want.

OK, so now so what is the frequency resolution?

So here it says the frequency resolution is two hertz.

And how do we compute that?

How is that defined?

Well, that's just defined by the difference of the Hertz vector.

So you can take Hertz to minus Hertz one and that gives you the spacing between successive frequency

indices here.

I'm taking the average difference.

This is really just, you know, just a different way of computing what I did here.

All right.

So this was for, uh, the default number of points.

And now we want to zero pad the data to increase the frequency resolution, try some different zero

putting numbers at what multiple of the native NFTE does the increased resolution have no appreciable

visual effect?

All right.

So let's see.

What I'm going to do now is actually keep this in figure seven and then I'm going to double this.

I'm going to say 950 equals two.

And let's compare what this looks like.

So now this is, uh, let me see.

I have to rerun that code.

OK, there you go.

So now and then also set that back to seven thousand.

So this is with the native NFI, the frequency resolution is two hearts here is with doubling the NFTE

and the frequency resolution is one hertz.

So it's interesting.

I mean, they don't look too much different.

In fact, if these two power spectra looked really qualitatively different than probably we made a coding

mistake somewhere so they shouldn't look much different.

This one is just a smoothed version.

OK, so now let's try changing this to three and I'll put that in figure eight.

So let's see how this looks and not surprisingly, it looks smoother, so now the frequency resolution

is is two thirds of a hertz and you can see, you know, it's not really.

So I think from let's see from here to here, there's a bit of a difference.

And here, of course, you know, we're getting more frequencies.

We're getting higher frequency resolution.

But the idea is that we are not really changing what we're seeing.

So it doesn't look a whole lot different.

So now I'm going up to 10 times the frequency resolution.

And let's you have to reset this y axis limit here.

So they're all comparable.

And yeah, you can see, I mean, they start to look smoother as we get to increase N for the 50, but

fundamentally, it's still the same result.

It just looks a little bit smoother.

All right.

So I think the answer to this question, so this is also a little bit qualitative.

You know, what is the what's the multiple of the native end where we're really starting to get no appreciable

increase?

I don't know.

Maybe let's say it's somewhere around like five times.

That's just that's just a total guess.

So very nice.

Very illuminating.

You can also see that this is quite a bit different from the simple example that I showed in the video

where I introduced you to zero padding.

And remember, in that video, we had a little signal, which was just a couple of integers, where

the result of increasing the zero padding really kind of seemed to qualitatively change the power spectrum

because there was that that dip you might remember, there was that kind of weird dip that appeared.

And I said that that was an extreme case.

So here you see a more normal case where the difference between a lot of zero padding and no zero padding

is basically just a slightly smoother version of the of the original spectrum.

All right.

So let's go down to number seven.

I'm going to close all of the effect.

I think I'll just clear everything.

So we call this I call this a poor man's filter via frequency domain manipulations.

So what we are going to do here is to see how a basic frequency domain filter works.

This is going to be a major topic of the next section time frequency analysis.

And I thought this exercise would give us a nice introduction.

So here's what we want to do, generate one over F noise and add a strong fifty hertz line noise component.

So simulating a 50 hertz line noise component.

And then what we're going to do is take the 50 of the signal zero out.

Well, this has some Fourier coefficients, but these are going to be we're going to eliminate the Fourier

coefficients corresponding to 50 hertz and then take the inverse FFT to get back to the time domain.

OK, so let's start by generating one over F noise.

So we have this sampling rates and this time point and a very sad time vector.

Let's make a happy time vector.

So this should be the time vector can bes.

I'm going to set this to be zero to the number of points minus one divided by s rate.

So that's going to give us a time vector in seconds.

So run that.

And then now some of this code might look familiar from the first section where I talked about simulating

one over F, so this is one way to simulate one over F noise.

And in that case, you might remember that I explicitly said that some of this code might look a little

bit confusing, might be a little weird, and you would understand it more in the future.

So now, by this point in the course, you are more familiar with the Fourier transform.

So I hope that this code is now more understandable than it was in the beginning of this course.

That would be a great thing, by the way.

So let's see.

We define this exponential decay parameter and then here we are defining random amplitude values.

So random numbers to endpoints.

And then here we have to scale this according to the negative exponential.

So this is just basically E to the minus T and then we divide by E d and let's have a look at what this

thing looks like.

So this is plot A.

So now you already know that if this is an amplitude spectrum, there's no there's only we're only defining

the positive frequency coefficients here.

We're not defining any negative frequencies over here.

So there actually should be a mirror over here.

So that means that when we take the.

In verse 50 of this signal, it's not going to be a real valued signal, we only get a real valued result

from the inverse Fourier transform when the Fourier transform or when the Fourier spectrum is perfectly

mirrored when the amplitude values are mirrored.

OK, so here I define the Fourier coefficients to be the the amplitude.

So these amplitudes times random phase values so e to the I and then random phase.

So this is Euler's formula with random phase numbers.

And then I would like to show you what this looks like without taking the real part.

So we have a lot of signal and now this is a bunch of like it looks pretty neat actually.

It's a bunch of curly things because this is the real axis and the imaginary axis.

So this is time going around here and all these little curly trajectories so I can plot the real part

of the signal, which looks like this.

This looks like pretty typical one over F noise.

And remember, in a previous video, at some point, I don't remember which video it was.

I said, if you ever take the inverse eight transform and you expect the result to be real value, but

it's actually complex valued, you should check out the imaginary part and it's likely to be zero.

Well, this is definitely not zero, and that's because we have an asymmetric spectrum.

So the frequency spectrum is non symmetric.

So we're going to get a complex valued result.

But in fact, for this purpose, we only care about the real results.

So, I mean, one thing you could do is force this to be symmetric by, you know, mirroring all of

these values and then taking the inverse F fifty.

Then you would get natively a real valued output.

But in my opinion, that doesn't really matter.

We don't care about that.

And by the way, now that we have only the real part of this, when we plot the magnitude of the Fourier

spectrum of the signal, now we are inputting into the FFT function a real value signal.

And so the results, the amplitude spectrum, in fact, will be now symmetric.

All right.

Very good.

So now we add 50 hertz line noise.

So I'm going to say the signal equals the signal plus sign of two pi f, which is 50 times time.

And how do we know that this is the right amplitude?

Let's try just plotting it.

So let's actually see.

I'm going to plot the signal again.

So now the sine wave at 50 hertz is going to have an amplitude of one.

So it's going to be like this.

So the line noise won't be so huge here.

Let's see what this looks like now.

So plott signal.

So now you do see the line noise in there.

And then it's interesting to see how this looks in the frequency domain are quite striking.

Look at this.

Let's zoom in here.

So you see a really strong line noise effect.

Remember, this is not one hundred and fifty hertz, this is just the hundred and fiftieth index because

I'm just plotting the magnitude.

I haven't specified any frequency vector.

All right.

So very good.

Now we want to compute its spectrum, and we already did that.

So I'm going to plot or take the 50 of the signal.

And now I want to apply the inverse Fourier transform to this signal eventually.

That's kind of the goal.

We want to manipulate this signal in the frequency domain by getting rid of this component here.

And then we are going to take the inverse Fourier transform to get back into the time domain.

So I don't want to add these two normalizations here, like dividing by the number of points, because

then when I take the inverse four transform, I will need to undo that normalization by multiplying

by the number of points.

OK, so let's run this and plot the signal and its power spectrum.

So here is the signal which we've already seen and the power spectrum.

Well, OK, this says power spectrum here.

This is actually computing the amplitude spectrum.

So there's the power spectrum.

And then we see now we can see that this thing is at 50 hertz.

All right, very nice.

So now our goal is to zero out this 50 hertz component in the frequency domain and then take the inverse

Fourier transform.

So let us find the index into the frequencies vector at 50 hertz.

So we want Hertz and transpose to make sure that this is a column vector and 50.

And we already know because we did some visual exploration before that this is going to be one hundred

and fifty or one hundred and fifty one I guess.

OK, so now we create a copy of the frequency, the frequencies frequency vector, but this is actually

the Fourier coefficients.

So here we get our copy and that's because I want to to preserve the original version.

All right.

And then now what we want to do is zero out the 50 hertz component.

So we say this 50 hertz or this frequency index equals zero.

Pretty straightforward.

So there you go.

And then we take the inverse Fourier transform of this, so signal X, F, inverse Fourier transform

and let's see what this looks like.

And then we're also going to take the Fourier transform this signal, which we just manipulated in the

frequency domain and then took the inverse Fourier transform of now might seem like we're doing a bunch

of circular steps, but there is a reason there is something wrong with this code.

It's not going to work the way you might expect it to work.

And we are going to discover why that is the case.

OK, so let's see then.

We are going to plot these signals on top of each other.

So let's already start by zooming in here.

So the black line corresponds to the original signal and the red line is the filtered signal.

So upon first glance, this looks pretty good.

It looks like we've gotten we've strongly attenuated a lot of these little fluctuations here.

OK, so let's set that back and then we get the frequency domain response here.

And then so this is a little bit surprising, isn't it?

So, again, the black line corresponds to the original signal.

So that's not surprising.

We added this sine wave here, but the red line corresponds to this signal X, F, an X, F is the F.T.

of signal F and signal F is the inverse F 50 of signal X F, and that is the spectrum where we totally

zeroed out this 50 hertz component.

So what is going on here?

Why did we zero this thing out?

And now it has a value of point five or, you know, somewhere around point five.

What is the deal here?

Did we make a mistake?

Doesn't look like we made a mistake.

So, uh, so we didn't make a coding mistake.

It turns out we made a signal processing mistake.

And let's see.

So here's a question.

Why do you need to take the real part of the IFB and why doesn't this procedure get rid of the noise?

Now, it turns out the answer to these two questions is the same.

And to be clear, I'm referring to this line here where I take the real part of this.

I remember what I said in the beginning of working through this problem.

If we have an asymmetric power spectrum, the resulting time domain signal from the inverse Fourier

transform will be complex valued.

So do we have a asymmetric spectrum?

And the answer is yes.

And the reason is that we only eliminated the positive 50 hertz component.

So let me show you this again.

So notice I'm going to put this in a new figure, let's say, about signal X F, so we got rid of the

50 hertz component here on this side.

But look here on the negative side of the spectrum, we still have this 50 hertz component.

So then we took the inverse FFT.

And this was a you know, this is now an asymmetric spectrum.

So we get a complex valued result.

And when we take just the real part, what ends up happening is that this amplitude gets split between

the positive and the negative frequencies.

And so we actually only removed part of the 50 Hertz component.

We didn't remove all of it.

We removed only the side in the positive spectrum, which corresponds to half of the 50 Hertz component.

And that's why we still get this this this positive value here at 50 hertz who if this stuff gets quite

tricky, doesn't it?

OK, let's see.

So that is the answer to these two questions.

Now we fix the problem.

OK, so notice that the filter didn't work it attenuated, but did not eliminate the line noise.

Why did.

Well, OK, so we know why this happened.

Use plotting to confirm your hypothesis, which we just did.

Then we have to fix the problem in this cell.

OK, so it looks like we have to redo some of this a little bit.

So find the 50 or its components.

So that's this thing and 50 hertz and then create a copy.

And now this code.

We've already run before this line of code and now we have to do the end minus.

So what we have to do now is also zero out this thing over here.

So there's a little bit of housekeeping that gets a little bit tricky here.

So what we want to do is go to the end of this spectrum and then we can go minus Hertz, 50 idex.

However, this is not accurate yet, and the reason why this is not accurate is that we have the first

frequency here corresponds to DC or zero, and there is no negative zero on this side.

So therefore we actually have to add one.

And now this is still not totally correct, and that's because of just the way that indexing works.

So, for example, imagine, you know, forgetting about zero frequency, zero hertz for now we can

just think about if we want to eliminate or zero out the very first component and the very last component.

So the very first component, we could write this to be one and then we set that to zero.

And then the last component, if we actually say and minus one, that's not going to be the last component.

That's going to be the second to last or the penultimate component.

So therefore, another piece of housekeeping, this is just the way the indexing works, is we need

to subtract off the thing we want, but then add one.

So that means that we have to add one plus one.

And if I remember my university level calculus course, I'm pretty sure that one plus one equals two.

So we check that one plus one.

Yeah, OK, I am very smart.

I'm very good at math, sorry for these bad jokes, I have to admit I get a little woozy after a while

doing these long recordings.

OK, so now so then we zero these out.

So let's run this.

And now I believe that we do not need this function real in here.

I believe that this should be a real valued result on its own.

OK, so it's it's not.

And when I look up here, I see this is really stupid.

So I index this, but I need to actually set it to zero.

So let's try this again.

OK, so now you can see this is a real valued result.

There is no this is not a complex valued vector.

There is no imaginary parts.

This is purely a real value to result.

And that is expected because now the spectrum is totally symmetric.

OK, so let's see to this and then take the fee of that filtered signal and then we are going to plot

all three versions.

So let's look at this in the time domain.

So here we see, uh, let's see.

Let's zoom in here.

The original is the black line.

The the blue line is I'm calling this half filtered.

That's the one with the positive frequency zeroed out, but not the negative frequency.

And then the red line is the like the validly the appropriately filtered signal.

And I think this nicely highlights the success of the filter.

We've really gotten rid of these this 50 hertz line noise or simulated line noise signal.

All right.

So then we plot the power spectrum here or the amplitude spectrum.

OK, so then you see that this is totally gone.

It's also gone.

Uh oh, yeah.

So I'm not putting the blue line here, I think, because it was already visible here.

So maybe a little bit confusing with the colors, because the red lines here actually correspond to

the blue line here.

And but I think you get the idea.

OK, so in the beginning of this exercise, I said that this is a poor man's filter.

And why did I what does that phrase mean?

So poor man's filter basically means that it's a crappy filter.

It means that it's not a good filter.

And why isn't this a good filter?

That's what we are going to explore here in this final problem.

But the main reason why it's not a good filter is that we are just exactly zeroing out one component.

We just set it to be zero.

And essentially what's happening is we are inducing edges here now in this particular example, that

happens to be not such a big deal because these neighboring frequencies are not so large.

And you can see that now that the variance here across these different frequencies is not that big,

like this one is also really close to zero.

So in this particular case, it happens to be that purely zeroing out exactly one frequency without

affecting, without attenuating or dampening the neighboring frequencies is OK.

It gives a good result here, but that is generally not a good idea.

So let's see what we are going to do in this final exercise.

I mean, close all these things.

So what we are going to do is generate some Fourier spectra and then get those into the time domain

via the inverse for a transform and then plot them.

And what you can see.

Well, let me let's run this code and then make sure we understand what this is doing here.

So we specify the first Fourier spectrum, and that is just a vector of one.

So it's a purely flat Fourier spectrum.

And then we copy it and then we are basically setting some numbers to zero.

So I'm specifying that basically from 10 percent of the way through, through 20 percent of the way

through, those end up being zero.

So let's plot this.

So plot for suspects two.

OK, so here you see the.

So this is the Fourier spectrum.

It's once here and once here.

And then it suddenly drops to zero with no attenuation, no gentle, gradual slope.

So this is purely dropping immediately all the way down to zero and then it jumps immediately up.

So we get these sharp edges here.

These are sharp edges.

These are non stationary in the frequency domain, not in the time domain.

In the frequency domain.

Now, of course, you can also see that this is an asymmetric power spectrum.

We've only modified the positive frequencies and we haven't changed the negative frequencies.

So it's totally fine.

And it just means that we are going to take the real part of the inverse F.T. of four suspects, one.

And then here I will see a copy and paste this.

And this is going to be forced back to OK, and then I define a normalized time vector, which just

goes from zero to one.

OK, because we don't really care about units here, we just want to visualize what this looks like.

So let's see, we're going to plot time by for Spectra.

OK, so actually this is the frequency domain plot, which is essentially just what I already showed

you so that you see here.

And then the more interesting thing is to look in the time domain.

And we see actually let me.

Yeah.

So you see that there are these really strong ripples that are appearing in the time domain because

of this sharp edge in the frequency domain.

So we can zoom in here.

OK, there we go.

Now it's come back online.

Let's see.

So I just wanted to zoom in here a little bit just to show you what these what the effect of sharp edges

in the frequency domain looks like in the time domain.

So we get these edge effects.

Now, the thing is, if you have a real signal, the real signal and the ripple artifacts from these

edges are going to come together and it's going to be difficult to disambiguate to disentangle the real

signal from this edge effect.

This is an edge effect that we will also have to worry about for time, frequency analysis and filtering

in general.

And so this is the reason why it's generally not a good idea to have really sharp edges imposed in a

frequency domain in attempts to filter the data or in this case, not filter out something in the data

or some range of frequencies.

A much better solution is to have the filter in the frequency domain be smooth and gentle.

And that is something you are going to learn about in the next section on time frequency analysis.

So that is the end of this problem, that it's also the end of this section of the course.

I hope you enjoyed this section.

I hope you found it really useful and instructive.

And I look forward to continuing to teach you about electrophysiology, signal processing and data analysis.