 The goal of this project is to explore interstate phase clustering, so kind of standard phase synchronization and the phase like index in the same data set with and without the surface of the plastic. In the end, a successful completion of this project will produce a figure that looks something like this. So you see phase clustering in the top row, play on the bottom row. And then in the left column, you see the connectivity measures applied to voltage data. And in the right column you see the same conductivity measures applied to the policy and data. And the interesting thing about this project in terms of signal processing and electrophysiology data analysis is to see the interaction between these two different measures of connectivity so apply versus phase clustering with the spatial transformation of applying the question or leaving the data in their original voltage. Now we can play a game here of which of these is not like the other. Obviously, these three panels, these three sets of results look really similar to each other, not identical. Of course, it's different data, different analysis methods. But I think you agree that they look qualitatively similar, both in terms of the main features, in particular, this blob around Alpha, in this blob around lower theta is present in all three of these results. But also in terms of the color, scaling up for these panels are on the same color scale. And this one is clearly the odd ball out. Now, it turns out that the problem or the difference here is that a lot of this connectivity or I should say apparent connectivity here is actually due to contamination by volume conduction. And that is why these values are so much higher than in any of these other three panels. So there's true connectivity and there's artificial connectivity due to volume conduction that's embedded in this plot. And these are basically different methods of attenuating the effects of the confound of volume conduction. So here we attenuate volume conduction by using the phase like index. Here we attenuate volume conduction by applying a spatial filter, in this case, the surface of the plastic. All right. So this is your goal to produce figures that panels that look like this. Now, you can see I've given you a little bit of help, not a whole lot, but it should be enough to get you started to be able to reproduce my results more or less. Exactly. So let's see. I use I picked synchronization between Channel FSD and posed. If you choose these two channels, you should be able to reproduce this figure. Obviously, as always, I encourage you to explore around and test out many different channel pairs and other parameters and so forth. I want to say one thing about how I defined the range of full with an F for the more they wavelet here. These are not taken to be or you should not take these to be the numbers two and four. So this is not two seconds and four seconds for the width. What this should be is that you specify the full with the maximum as a number of cycles per frequency. So what I intend for you to do here is to say that at the lowest frequency you should have two full cycles. So the full that half maximum should correspond to whatever duration of time corresponds to two cycles at the lowest frequency. And that will go up to a with a full with that half maximum of the Gaussian for the more they weigh but of four cycles at the highest frequency. So that's what these numbers should be taken. So you'll need to convert these into two cycles and four cycles, not two seconds and four seconds. All right. I believe that's clear enough. Here, let me specify some wavelet parameters here. You need to get the, uh, Fourier spectra of the data, the voltage data and also the policy and data. And let's see, I believe this is more or less straightforward. It's an interesting question here, whether you need to normalize the wavelengths in the frequency domain, which is something that I often do for power. The question is whether you need to do that here as well. I will let you ponder that. Otherwise, the rest of this code should be pretty straightforward for you based on what you've learned over the previous two sections of this course. Let's see. And here you compute interstate phase synchronization and phase like index. Now, if you can, I encourage you to try to complete these two lines of code without looking back at the previous code. So just based on what you remember, based on your understanding of how these different analysis methods, these connectivity methods work. All right. And then we get some plodding most of the plotting is done for you or most of the code, I should say, is done for you already, including specifying the color limit and so forth. All you need to do is get this color. So I counter function to work, so good luck working through this project in the next video, I will walk you through my solutions.