 The goal of this project is to compute power correlations and also phase synchronization in the same data set and basically qualitatively compare the results and the networks that are emerging when using power correlations versus phase synchronization. The successful completion of this project will produce two figures, one figure looks like this, and let me walk you through this and I'll explain the other figure. So this is a measure of correlation or synchronization. So it's correlation for power time series synchronization for the phase angle time series. And this is frequency. And essentially this is just summing up all of the correlations across all possible pairs of channels. This is using the V1 laminar matte data set here. You see the ult all synchronization matrices. So the channel by channel correlation matrices appear for a few different frequencies. And down here it's the same matrices, the same frequencies. But this is for phase synchronization, whereas this row is for power. So this is one figure and you might recognize part of this figure from the video on power time, serious correlations. And in fact, this black line here and these three plots are taken exactly from that video on Power Times series correlations and then before added to the code to produce these phase angle synchronization results. Now we have to figure to and here you can see. Basically a different way of visualizing these connectivity data, so we have ceded connectivity in this case, I ceded this from Channel nine at 50 hertz. So this matrix here shows connectivity from Channel Nine to all the other channels at 50 hertz, and then it's separated for power and the first column and phase synchronization in the second column. So now the Channel Nine has a value of one, of course, because Channel Nine is perfectly correlated with itself. And basically what this tells you is that 50 hertz, the power correlation power time series correlation between Channel Nine and let's say Channel 14 is around. I don't know what this is, maybe zero point one five and the phase synchronization with the same channel, same frequency is, you know, whatever this is point four eight, let's say. Now this matrix here, this visualization that comes from exactly the same data as these, it's just a different way of visualizing essentially figure two here is just showing one row or one column of this matrix and then this matrix next to each other. OK, so you're probably wondering what is the deal with the starter code? So I always provide a starter code for these projects. Maybe you think that there's something wrong with your screen or maybe you think that I change the color settings so that the font for the code here is the same as the color for the background. But unfortunately for you, that is not the case. And in fact, I'm not providing any starter code. So you can try to if you're feeling adventurous, if you want a really a good challenge, you can try writing this code all from scratch. If you're not quite up to that level of programming at the end, don't worry. My recommendation is to start with the code from the video power time series Correlations and then basically work with that code and add whatever you need to or change whatever you need to to be able to repeat the analysis for phase synchronization and generate these plots. So good luck working through this project. And of course, in the next video, I will walk you through my solutions.