 In the previous video, I introduced you to Morleigh Wavelets and I showed you what they look like in the time domain and in the frequency domain, but, you know, I always find that there's a big difference between just seeing some pictures or looking at some equations and getting hands on experience in code in Matlab. So therefore, what we're going to do in this video is basically just simulate some more they wavelets and see what they look like. And you will have the opportunity to play around with a bunch of different parameters to really get a good handle on what these Morleigh Wavelets are like. All right. So here we define a sampling rate, time vector and frequency looks kind of funny to set the frequency to be two pi, but it's a perfectly valid frequency. Two PI is going to be around six point to eight. So we could have, you know, so that's a normal frequency to use. Let's see. So now we create the sine wave and then here we create the Gaussian and here we multiply them together. Now, in this case, I'm actually using the cosine function rather than the sine function, and that's just to make it symmetric looking. So you can also think of this as a sine wave and then we add a phase offset of PI over to. So let's see. So to create the pure sine wave, we need cosine of two times pi times, frequency, times, time. All right. So let's already have a look at this thing. I think it's it's always good to visualize stuff along the way. Make sure you're not doing anything wrong. So this is a total normal looking sine wave and I should say cosine wave. So when you look at zero, you can see that the peak is at zero and it's symmetric around zero. That's the indicator that we are working with a cosine. OK, so here we are creating the Gaussian. Now, there are two different formulas that I'm using for a Gaussian window in this course. One of them is E to the minus T squared over two squared and the other one is E to the minus four times log, two times time squared, divided by four with that half maximum squared. Now at this point in the course, it might still seem a little bit confusing which Gaussian formula you should use when you should use one and the other and why I'm showing two. Just to make your life more confusing. I'm going to talk about these issues and I'm going to talk about these two formulas in more detail in a later video. I think it's the one on parameters of Morleigh Wavelet convolution. But for now, suffice it to say that one of the nice things about this formula versus the other formula where we have two s squared over here is that here we can specify the full with that half maximum directly in seconds. And this is in units of seconds if your time is in units of seconds. So let's have a look at the Gaussian so plot and then Gauss when I guess when. Yeah, there you go. Looks like a normal Gaussian. And here sort the full with that half maximum we can already like estimated by I. So we want to find the point before the peak that's closest to point five or I should say 50 percent of the maximum amplitude and here the maximum is one. So the point closest to point five is around minus point to five. And then after the peak, the point closest to 50 percent. Energy is around here. So that's a plus point two five. So this goes minus 250 milliseconds to plus two hundred and fifty milliseconds. So the full weight that F maximum, according to our very rough and dirty estimate, is pretty close to zero point five. All right. So now we want to create the Morleigh wavelet variable M w and we get that by multiplying the sine wave and the Gaussian. However, this turns out to be just a single number. What is the deal there? Well, the deal there is that we're not supposed to use the DOT product. We don't want to compute the DOT product between these two signals. We want to compute the element Y's multiplication like this. All right. And now, normally, I would say we should plot this. However, I'm pretty sure we're going to plot it right here. So let's see here we see our sine wave, the pure sine wave and read the Gaussian in blue and the more they wavelet in black. Now, if you are following along and you haven't already done this, that I encourage you to pause the video here before even getting down to the frequency domain stuff, pause the video here and just spend some time playing around with these parameters. You can change. Any of these parameters, the most interesting parameters to change are this one, the frequency and this one the full with maximum of the Gaussian. You can also try changing the sampling rate and you will find that that has very little effect until the sampling rate gets very, very low, like, you know, approaching twice the frequency. So we're getting close to the Nykvist. Now, another thing that I would like to point out here is the importance of the symmetry of the time vector. So notice at this time, vector goes from minus one to plus one. Now, if we and then you see the wavelet is symmetric here, that's actually really important for time frequency analysis. If I would set this time vector to be asymmetric like this and I'm not changing anything else, not changing any of the other parameters. Notice that now. So when you look at time zero, it looks like it's still centered. I mean, it kind of is because of time zero here. However, if you would turn off this Y axis or the x axis, so, for example, let's do set get current axis X tick is empty. So without seeing the X axis, it looks like this is the center of time. And now when we actually use this wavelets in convolution, this gets treated like the center point of time. So that means that if you use a wavelet that's off center like this, it's phase shifted like this. And convolution you are actually imposing a artificial phase shift in the results. Your results will be temporally inaccurate. You're going to have an inaccurate estimate of when events happen in time. And that's because this wavelet is not symmetric. OK, so let's change this back. So when you're creating a time vector for more than wavelets, you always want to go from minus something to plus that same value. Now, I have to redo this because I don't even like looking at this. It hurts my eyes. OK, I feel much better now looking at this thing. So let's move on to more Morleigh wavelengths in the frequency domain. OK, so confirm that the shape of the power spectrum of a Morleigh wavelength is a I'm sure you are guessing. You're screaming the right answer at your computer screen and it is a Gaussian. So let's see. We are just defining the number of points and here we take the F.T. of Points. That is not correct, although I am curious what it's going to be. It's actually just a it's a single number. So we are taking the fight of a single number and the fifty is just the value of one. And that is pretty interesting to think about. I would like you to ponder why when we take the fifty of the number twenty one normalize by the number of points, we end up with exactly one. OK, nonetheless, this is the wrong thing to do. I believe that variable is called M w is that right. Yeah. And W OK and then divide by points and let's see. Here is the plot now at this scale, it looks like it's just a spike. However, if we were to zoom in, you would see that this is not a spike. It's a Gaussian. It may not look as smooth as you might expect, and that's because of the frequency resolution. Nonetheless, we see that it's a Gaussian and it has a peek at something that's very close to six points something or other. Let me see. So it's six points something. And so it's close to six point five and that is close to two PI. Now, if you would like this right, I should ask you the question. How would you make this have a finer frequency resolution? If you wanted to get more frequencies from the wavelet in the frequency domain, what would you do? You guessed it. I think you guessed it. I'm sure you know the right answer. You would have to increase the number of points. You don't have to change the sampling rate. You could change this to go from, let's say, minus to two plus two and let's see. So that's not really going to change this. Now it looks different, but that's because before the plot was cut from minus one to plus one. So we just have basically a lot more zeros in here. And then let's rerun all of this. And now we can zoom in and see that we get. Now, this looks more like a what you would expect from a Gaussian. It's still actually a little bit pieced together. So, you know, maybe you want to even set this up higher, like minus three to plus three. But I think this is fine. OK, so one thing we're missing here, by the way, is a scale of two. So if we want this to be really in amplitude and the same amplitude scaling as this one, we have to multiply this by two. So let's run that again. So let's look at the observations here. Notice that the amplitude spectrum is symmetric. So that's not so surprising. But it's worth noting the this is the entire amplitude spectrum. We're not cutting it off at some low frequency or at Nykvist. This is the whole spectrum. And we see that this frequency domain representation of the more wavelet is symmetric. And why is that's, uh, expected. Why why do you expect that to be the case? Let's see. Also notice that the peak amplitude in the time, OK, notice the peak amplitudes in the time versus frequency Romain's. So this actually both of these points are going to set us up for the future. So the amplitude spectrum is symmetric because this is a real value wave. It's just a cosine. Now, in a few videos from now, we are going to start exploring complex value Morleigh Wavelets. And you already know from the previous section that when you have a real value signal, then the four transform is going to be symmetric. The power spectrum will be symmetric. When you have a complex valued signal, the spectrum is actually non symmetric. It's asymmetric. So keep this in mind that the amplitude spectrum is symmetric and we will get back to this in a future video. OK, and now notice that the the peak amplitudes in the time domain, which goes to one and that's not surprising because the sine wave has unit amplitude. We didn't modify the amplitude of the sine wave and also the Gaussian has unit amplitude. We didn't modify the amplitude of the Gaussian, which means that the peak is going to have its default value of one. Now, on the other hand, the amplitude of the frequency domain response here is one point or zero point one three, whatever this is, it's certainly a lot lower than one. And that is also just something to notice for now. It's just something to be aware of. And this is going to be relevant for scaling the spectrum of Morleigh Wavelets. When we're doing time frequency analysis. It's going to be another one of these kind of weird scaling factors that's floating around that you may or may not have to worry about, depending on what you're doing with your analyses. OK, and then the other point, which I've mentioned several times before, the Hertz units are incorrect above Nyqvist. So this is the convenient plotting trick. So these frequencies are all valid. These are correct. Up to 500 above here. These are not the correct frequencies. This is really minus 400, minus 300, minus 200, minus one hundred. And this is actually not minus zero. But, you know, it gets cut off. So this would be minus whatever the lowest frequency is, maybe it's zero point one. So as long as you are aware of. I think it's fine to do this, OK, so we have to do change the following parameters to observe the effects. So I already actually encouraged you to play around with these things. So if you haven't already, then it now would be a good time to, uh. Well, actually, I'm going to end the video. So after the video ends, you can go play around with these parameters. And the goal here, the point is to gain some more intuition, just get a good feel for what these Morleigh Wavelets are like. So now that you know about what Morleigh Wavelets are and how to create them, it is time to learn what to do with them and what we are going to do with them is use them as Col's in a procedure called convolution. And that is coming up in the next video.