 We are going to explore complex valued more than wavelets in the time domain and in the frequency domain. So let's get started. Here we specify a sampling rate of a kilohertz. Here's our time vector. It goes from minus something to plus that same thing. So minus one to plus one in steps of one over the sampling rate. So this is a legit line of code. And as I mentioned a couple of years ago when I was talking about the real value Morleigh Wavelets, it's good to have the time go from minus something to plus something in part because that will make sure that you have an odd number of points in the wavelet, which is useful for convolution, and also because it doesn't impose a phase shift in your data. OK, and then this frequency vector, again, it looks funny. I think I just did it here to confuse you. So having to pi be the frequency is totally valid. It means that our frequency is going to be six point three. OK, so here we create our sine wave E to the I to pi f and now here's this. Hmm. So you can you you might have already guessed that we are missing a time vector here, so we need to multiply by time. OK, so that gives us our sine wave which is actually a complex sine wave and here is our Gaussian. So I haven't actually yet really discussed the formulas for the Gaussian, the two alternative formulations for a Gaussian. So you might need to consult back on some previous videos. But essentially the way that we can define the Gaussian in terms of the full with the half maximum is we start with a normalization parameter, which is minus four times the natural log of two times time squared. Like this, and then that is divided by the full weight, that half maximum squared like that. So let's see and then I'm already curious to have a look at these things. So I'm going to plot time by now. I can just plot the sine wave like this. Now, this is a complex valued vector here, and I'm not extracting the real part or the imaginary part or the angle or the magnitude. So if you just plot it like this, Matlab will by default just plot the real part. And I'll give you a warning saying that the imaginary parts are ignored. So that's fine. And now let's see, I'm also going to plot the Gauss win the Gaussian window and well, not super interesting, but it's important to inspect these things to make sure they look like what we expect them to look like. OK, now create the more they wavelet. So the complex Morleigh wavelet is defined as the sine wave element, which is multiplied by the Gaussian window. So we are doing element multiplication, so we need the period here so the dots are OK and then we are doing some plotting. And here you see both the real part and the imaginary part of the complex. Marlay Wavelet in the time domain. OK, and now let's look at this in the frequency domain. So here I am computing the FFT and dividing by the number of points and notice that I'm not actually multiplying by two here. And this is actually relevant. I'm not multiplying by two here because I'm not interpreting only the positive side of the spectrum. I want to see the entire the full amplitude spectrum from the positive frequencies and from the negative frequencies. So if you also want to visualize and interpret the negative frequencies, then you don't multiply by two here. OK, so let's see. And then we are going to see the power spectrum here. And look at this here. We have the positive frequencies going up to Nykvist. Remember, the sampling rate was a kilohertz. So here we are up to Nykvist. And I've mentioned this several times before. But when you have this shortcut for defining the frequencies like this, going up to the sampling rate in the number of points, then it's fine for a shortcut. You just have to realize and be aware of the fact that these numbers are not accurate. This is actually minus four hundred, minus three hundred, minus 200, minus one. And this gets down to whatever is the lowest frequency above zero. So this is kind of funny looking, right. You might have expected to see another blip over here, another Gaussian. This is actually really thin, but this is, in fact, a Gaussian peaking at around. It should be in theory, this would be exactly six point two eight whatever Hertz. But here it's going to be whatever the frequency resolution allows. So here's the positive spectrum. Why don't we see anything in the negative spectrum? Why is there no corresponding part of this? Uh, Morleigh wavelet here in the negative side of the spectrum. In fact, that is the question that we are being asked here. What happened to the spectrum? Is it still symmetric? The answer is no. It is definitely not symmetric. And that is actually not surprising. It is not symmetric because this is a complex valued signal that we are taking the safety of. And the FFE or the amplitude spectrum is going to be symmetric only for real valued inputs. This is a complex valued input. Now, it's certainly not the case that all complex valued signals have an empty negative spectrum that happens to be a special property of the complex. Morleigh wavelet. And essentially what's happening is that the imaginary part has signed components in the positive spectrum and sine components in the negative spectrum, and they end up getting canceled out here. So it's in general not simply the case that all complex valued signals have empty negative spectra or negative frequency spectra. But that is interesting to note. That is also going to be relevant for when I talk to you about the Hilbert transform and I explain about how the Hilbert transform works. And you know, what's missing here is my favorite way of looking at Complex Morleigh Wavelets. I don't know why I left that out. Let's see. So what I'm going to do and I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do, and then I encourage you to pause the video and do it yourself. So you should do is make a three dimensional plot of the complex sine wave because or so Morleigh wavelet, because this complex Morleigh wavelet actually has three dimensions. It has time, the real part and the imaginary part. So I'm now going to continue and I hope you have taken this opportunity to pause the video. And plot this thing in all of its three dimensional glory, so let's see, plot three, we want time by the real part of Complex Morleigh Wavelet by the imaginary part of the complex Morleigh wavelet. Make this be a thick black line. And let's see then I will turn axis image. Let's see what that's going to do. That's OK. And then I will do rotate three D on. OK, so now we can basically click and drag around and now we can see what this complex Morleigh wavelet really looks like in a three dimensional space. So you can project through the real axis. And now we see the sine axis. You can see it's a little wobbly. It's an odd function. We can rotate this to project through the imaginary axis. And now this is the real axis. And we see the real part of the Morleigh Wavelet, which is a cosine and then we can also spin this around. So we are projecting through the time axis. So now the wavelet starts here, it goes out and around, then it comes back into the center and this is the complex plane. So the real part and the imaginary part. All right. So that was a nice introduction to computing and visualizing complex Morleigh Wavelets. In the next video, I'm going to discuss what to do with these complex Morleigh Wavelets and how to extract information from the result of convolution with complex Marlay Wavelets.