 When talking about static spectral analyses using the Fourier transform, I talked about non-state scenarios and signals what non stationary these mean, how they can manifest so the different types of non stationary and what the effects of non stationary are for the power spectrum. And in this video, I'm going to extend that discussion to the stationary assumption of wavelet convolution. So this is a slide that's copied from a video in a previous section. And I made the claim that the results of the Fourier transform are easily visually interpretable only for stationary signals. And again, as a quick reminder, the Fourier transform is totally valid. It's always a perfect transformation of your signal from the time domain into the frequency domain, regardless of the characteristics of the data. It doesn't matter whether your data are stationary or non stationary. The Fourier transform is always it always works. However, looking at the power spectrum and trying to interpret the power spectrum is possible, is feasible only for stationary signals. But many signals have non stationary in them, particularly brain signals have a lot of non stationary D in them. And that was in fact one of the main motivations for moving from a static spectral analysis to a dynamic spectral analysis or time frequency analysis. So now essentially I'm going to make a similar claim here that the results of wavelet convolution are easily interpretable only for stationary signals. And here is the key part within the full with that half maximum of the wavelet. So where the wavelet has non-zero energy and again, similar to with the 48 Transform Wavelet Convolution, Morleigh Wavelet convolution and the other time frequency analysis methods that you'll learn about in the rest of this section, they're always valid. They always work. It's totally fine if you have lots of non stationary ATI's or stationary, whatever is going on in the signal wave of convolution is always a valid approach. The question is how easily can we interpret the results of wavelet convolution? And the answer is we can easily visually interpret the results of whatever convolution when the data are stationary within the period of the wavelet where we have non-zero energy. And so essentially that is, you know, this window here. So this period here where the Gaussian has non-zero energy. So you can define this as the full with that half maximum. So the time window where the Gaussian that creates the wavelet in the time domain goes from 50 percent energy before the peak to 50 percent energy after the peak. So your assumption when doing wavelet convolution is that the signal is stationary within relatively small windows of time. And that window of time for your implicit assumption that you're making about the data are about interpreting the results is related to the width of the Gaussian. So let's take this one. For example, if you use a six cycle Gaussian at this frequency, I think this was around six hertz or seven hertz. So at six hertz a and if you're using a six cycle Morleigh wavelet, then you are implicitly making the assumption that the signal is stationary within the time window of, let's say, you know, this is that's for ease of simplicity. Let's pretend this is minus 250 milliseconds to plus two and fifty milliseconds. So that's a total of five hundred milliseconds. So we are assuming if you're using this wavelet, you make the assumption that the data can be non stationary over longer windows of time, but that at any given window of five hundred milliseconds the data are going to be stationary. So you can also see that as you change this Morleigh wavelet parameter, the width of this Gaussian, your assumption about stationary of the signal, the time window of stationary is also changing. So you might make assumptions that are that you know that the signal R is stationary for very brief periods of time or is stationary for longer periods of time. And if your data fail to conform to this stationary stationary assumption. So if you're using a 15 cycle wavelet but the data are stationary or are non stationary within this time window of one second, then again, that doesn't invalidate the result of your wavelet convolution, but it does make your results harder to interpret because all of those nonstate scenarios are being averaged together within this time window. So all of this means. That as you are setting up your analysis, when you are selecting the parameter for Morleigh Wavelets, whether you think about it or define it in terms of the number of cycles or explicitly as the full with the maximum, you can also think about your assumption about the time scale of stationary in the signal and use that assumption to guide your parameter selection. 
