The multi taper method is a time frequency decomposition method that stands apart from the other three

methods that I have already introduced you to, and that is because whereas Wavelet Convolution Filter

Helbert and Short Time Forty eight Transform are generally all the same procedure, they have slightly

different applicator implications mechanisms, but they're really, really similar to each other.

The multi taper method is a different method and the results that you will get from a multi taper method

will be of course, somewhat comparable to the other methods, but not as closely comparable as the

three other methods are to each other.

So multi taper methods are all based on something called the discrete proleague Slepian tapers and sometimes

called DP's s where the last s here would be four sequences instead of tapers.

So I'm going to start by trying to motivate the multi taper method and then I will explain how it works.

You might remember this diagram, this table from the beginning of the course here, I discussed the

distinction between phase locked and non phase locked activity and time locked and non time locked activity.

The multi taper method is really designed for this particular feature here.

So this would be when you have data that is both non phase locked and also non time locked.

Now, if these features of the data these, you know, non face lock down time locked features of the

data are really strongly non time locked and they can be lost in the trial averaging.

So what you want to do is have a method that is more robust to these temporal jitters, essentially

by smoothing over over frequency and over time to allow you to identify these four features and average

them together.

So that's kind of the idea.

So here's another diagram that I'm going to use to illustrate to motivate the multi taper method.

So here is a trial average time frequency plot.

Now, I haven't labeled the frequency axis with particular numbers because that doesn't really matter.

Here are individual trials.

And when you can see when you look through these three individual trials and the average is that there

is a lot of consistent low frequency, high power dynamics that are emerging in each of these three

trials.

But what you also see when you look at these individual trials is that there are bursts of higher frequency

activity.

So here and here and maybe here or maybe here that don't really survive the averaging as well.

You just see a little bit here, but they don't necessarily average come through, survive the averaging

process as well because they're less time locked than this lower frequency response.

So this is the motivation for the multi taper method.

So how does it work?

How do we average across these larger time windows?

Well, it works by starting from these things called sleep sleep in tapers.

And these are sequences of sleep and taper.

So they all come together as a team.

They work together as a sequence.

You can see the first sequence looks a bit like a Gaussian and then the next sequence looks a bit like

the derivative of the Gaussian.

And each one looks a little bit like the derivative of the previous one.

But what's interesting about these papers is that they're all orthogonal to each other, so they are

all mutually uncorrelated.

Then that means that if you use these as tapers on the same data, they are going to highlight different

features of the same data.

So, for example, this first taper is going to highlight only the time points towards the middle of

the of the data snippet and the beginning and the end of the data snippet will be attenuated.

But by the time you get to this taper, when you apply this taper to the same data sequence, you can

see that the energy from the towards the beginning and towards the end are going to be preserved.

OK, so how does the multi taper method work?

Well, we start with our snippet of data.

So this is just a piece of data.

Let's say this is like five hundred milliseconds long.

So what you do is you take this first sleep and taper and you taper this time series.

So you do Element Y's multiplication, not some.

We're not doing the DOT product, just Element Y's multiplication.

And you taper this little snippet of data and that's going to give you a resulting time series that

looks like this.

And then you can see where this is going.

We move to the next taper and that gives us a time series that looks like this, the next one and the

next one.

So from.

This one data snippet we have obtained four different times series, well, they're not really different,

they come from the same time series, but they are tapered in different ways.

So different features of the signal are highlighted.

So this is how we start with these tapers and then this time series and we get these resulting tapered

time series.

So now these four time series are going to appear on the left over here.

And now what you do is you take the Fourier transform from each of these individual tapered time series

and then extract power that gives you four different power spectra.

Now, multi taper method works with a varying number of of tapers, if not necessarily for I'm illustrating

for here just to make things consistent in the slides.

But in practice, you can actually determine the number of papers you want to use and of course, that

will shape the amount of smoothing that gets applied to the data.

So now we have four different power spectra.

But of course these are all coming from the same data.

They are just tapered in different ways.

So now you take all of these and these are the power spectra here.

And I'm going to report them over here on the left and then we just average them together.

And that gives us one power spectrum.

And this corresponds to the multi taper estimate of the spectrum of the data snippet.

And we're using these different papers and you can contrast this with a normal Fourier transform, which

would look like this.

So this is just the power spectrum from a regular Fourier transform of the same data snippet.

So this spectrum and this spectrum come from exactly the same data.

These have been pushed through the multi taper method, and this is just one F.T..

And what you can see here is that the kind of prominent features of the spectrum are preserved and even

a bit enhanced.

They are smoothed in this spectrum.

But what you lose from the multi taper spectrum is kind of the finer details of the spectrum.

So like here it looks like.

So, you know, it's difficult when you're looking at the power spectrum of a little data snippet like

this to know how much you should interpret any individual feature.

But let's just, you know, go with it and over interpret every tiny, stupid little picture here.

Maybe this is noise and non reproducible, but let's imagine that this and this and this are three unique

peaks in this spectrum.

And this is really this valley.

Here is a separation between this peak and this.

And that subtlety is lost in the multi taper method where, you know, we still get like these little

one peaks here and this other peak has just completely disappeared.

And then somehow this other peak, even some just sort of appeared spontaneously.

And also you can see a lot of the information here in the lower frequencies.

Perhaps this is one feature of the data and this is a separate feature of the data.

And that really all got merged together in the lower frequencies here.

So I'm not making value judgments.

The multi taper method is a powerful method.

It's important to realize, however, that the effect of the multi taper method is to smooth out the

spectrum.

So what you end up with is a result that gives you the kind of prominent broad characteristics of the

signal.

And there is a risk of losing some of the subtleties of the signal in order to boost the signal to noise

characteristics.

OK, so I'm just going to show you this whole procedure again on one slide just to make sure it's really

clear.

So here we have our snippet of data and then we push it through these different papers.

Now, in this case, with this figure here, I'm showing actually five papers.

So each of these five papers gets applied to the same data.

You get five different tapered data signals.

You take the power spectrum of each of these Tapert signals and average these power spectra together.

Or you can do the short time for a transformed version where you take this little data snippet and apply

only one taper, like one hand taper.

You can see it's not exactly the same as the first Slepian's taper here.

Then you get one tapered version of the signal.

You do one for you transform and you get one power spectrum.

And then again you see that this power spectrum highlights these broad features a little bit better.

And here we see many more subtle features that seem to be a bit smoothed over in this multi taper result.

So what I'm showing you here so far when talking about the multi taper method is just one data snippet.

The multi taper method otherwise works just like.

The short time 48 transform, which I explained a few a few videos ago, so all the steps that I just

went through for taking a little snippet of data, doing the tapering with different papers and doing

the four eight transform and averaging those results together, that would give you one Fourier transform,

one power spectrum that you would insert into a time frequency plot, and then you would repeat that

procedure for many, many different time windows.

And you can also change the parameters as you go through the frequency axis here or through different

frequency ranges.

So in general, the multi taper method will produce results that are somewhat comparable to the time

frequency results from Wavelet Convolution Filter Hilbert and short time for a transform, with the

exception that the multi taper results will be smoother and highlight the prominent features of the

signal at the expense of the more subtle features.