 So far in this course, we have computed time, frequency decompositions of individual channels, or sometimes we've created topographical maps of activity at one time point or in one frequency. But it's pretty likely that in your data set in your experiments, you want to extract time, frequency, power, time, frequency, information from all the channels that you have and from many, many time points and many frequencies. So that leads to a large, multidimensional cube of data. The simplest version of which is three dimensions. And I will show you what those dimensions are later on, what those matrices will look like. But what I want to do in this video is discuss visualization and a couple of different strategies for visualizing time, frequency, power when you compute it from all the channels, not just any given channel. So in this data set, we are going to extract the time points, post analysis. So after the time frequency decomposition is performed, extract the time points from minus 200 to plus 800 milliseconds instead of 25 milliseconds. That corresponds to 40 hertz. So in other words, we are going to be down sampling the post analysis results to 40 hertz. And then let's see, here's the baseline time window that I specify and otherwise not so much interesting stuff here. I'm setting up some parameters. Of course, I encourage you to go through this line by line and make sure you understand what each line is doing. But I'm going to skip that for now. So now here I create the wavelets before running through the time frequency decomposition. And the reason why I'm doing that is because I want to create the wavelets in a separate loop so that I can avoid computing or creating these more late wavelets multiple times. So I'm going to avoid some computational redundancy. Here is the time frequency decomposition. Now, there isn't really much new mechanically. There's just a little bit new stuff in the code. For example, you can see initializing the time frequency matrix to be channels by frequencies by time points. Previously or up until this point, there wasn't this first dimension we just had frequency's by 10 points. So already you can see that this time frequency matrix is now three dimensions and we don't even have any conditions in here. So you can imagine if you have a data set with different experimental conditions, then that's going to add another dimension. So that's going to become a four dimensional results matrix. And maybe if you are also saving power versus face clustering, then that's going to be even another dimension. So you might end up with a five dimensional time frequency matrix. So you can see that even just conceptualize in that matrix starts to get a bit difficult, let alone visualization. All right. So this loop is exactly the kind of loop that you have seen before. So we loop over frequencies, run convolution, reshape back to time points by trials, extract power and baseline, convert to decibel and so on. The only thing that's really new here is this additional loop that goes over channels. And so inside this loop, before we go into the different frequencies, we are computing the Fourier spectrum of the data from only this channel. Now you can see why I don't want to create the complex Morleigh Wavelets inside this loop. Imagine, for example, I put this code for creating the wavelets. Imagine I put that inside this loop here. That would mean that I would be recreating the wavelets over and over and over again for however many channels you have. So that's redundant, it's pointless and it's going to increase computation time. All right. So I'm going to run through this cell now. So that takes several seconds to get through. And now we have this visualization issue. So let me just remind you that this Matrix T.F. is channels by frequencies by time points. So it's not really possible to view everything all at the same time. So one way to do this is by picking slices. And that's what I'm doing in this code here. So I'm going to pick a slice. We are going to pick Channel Z and then we can see the full time frequency plot from Channel P, Z, but then we don't know what's happening at any other channel. Or I can look at time point two hundred milliseconds and frequency point twelve hertz and then I can make a topographical map of that. Then I can see what's happening over the entire scalp everywhere at all the channels. But I don't know what's happening earlier or later in time or lower or higher in frequencies. Nonetheless, there is nothing wrong with this kind of slicing view of looking at time frequency results. So here you see the topographical map at two hundred milliseconds, Telfords Hertz. And if we just look at electrode P Z, which I guess is this one here. Then this is the time frequency plot from --. So now you can play around with this and this kind of interesting you can change this to FZ. So here you see the time frequency plot from FZ. Now, this topographical map hasn't changed, of course, because they didn't change these parameters, but I could set this to be six, for example. And now here is what the data look like at two hundred milliseconds and six hertz. So wouldn't it be nice if we could change all of these parameters much more quickly just by clicking instead of changing all these and rerunning and having to look at this again? So that is the primary idea of this. Taufua X, this is a little gooey, a graphical user interface that will allow you to explore a time frequency channel matrix. So I'm going to run this cell. That opens up this new window here and now this is pretty neat because this is a clickable time frequency map. So everywhere you click on here, you will see the corresponding topographical map. And of course, on this topographical map, you can start clicking around and let me see. I'm going to change put some dots on here so we can see where we're clicking. So now we can poke around and click on various channels and now we see the time frequency map from electrode FZ and now I can start clicking around on here and so forth. So this allows you to explore the time by frequency, by space overview of the data. And there's lots of parameters. You can change the colour limits, you can manually specify the time points and all sorts of things that you can explore.