 You will recall from an earlier video in this section of the course, that video was called into the trial phase clustering before versus after removing the ERP, that it is possible to subtract the ERP. So subtract the trial average response from each individual trial. And that estimate, something called the nonferrous part of the signal, assuming that the ERP is the phase locked part of the signal. Now, in that video, we explored this concept in terms of the entire trial phase clustering and what we are going to do in the or what you are going to do in this project is continue exploring this concept, but now in time frequency power instead of in phase clustering. In particular, what you want to do here is generate three time frequency maps, one corresponding to the total signal, one corresponding to the non phase locked component of the signal and finally the phase locked component of the signal. So the total signal is just the wrong signal, exactly how it comes in in the matched file, exactly how it comes in this data set. So you don't do anything to this, this is the total signal, and the idea is that this total signal can be broken down into two components that sum together to create the total signal. And those two components are the nonferrous locked part of the signal and the phase locked part of the signal to obtain the non-ferrous locked part of the signal. What you want to do is subtract the ERP from each trial individually, just like we did in that previous video, and then compute the time, frequency, power of the residual of the difference. So the single trial data without the ERP in it. So with the ERP subtracted, that gives you the nonferrous locked power. And now to compute the phase locked power, you first have to compute these two time frequency maps and you want to baseline normalize them. You can see this is industrial scale, so then you subtract this. So the non like power from the total power and that result in time frequency map is going to be the estimate of the phase locked power phase locked part of the signal. Now, that turns out to be a better estimate of the phase locked part of the signal compared to doing the time frequency analysis of the ERP directly, and that's because of two reasons. First is that when the baseline of the ERP is really flat, when the baseline is really smooth, then you tend to get some weird results here because there isn't much energy in the baseline. Secondly, a lot of the features in this time, frequent in this IRP, tend not to be very speciale localizer. OK, so anyway, you want to create this map as the difference between these two, you can see these two maps, the total power and the non phasuk power are on the same scale or on the same decibel scale. And this phasuk power is on a much smaller scale. And that also makes sense when you just visually compare these to these two time frequency. Power plots look really, really similar, particularly for the higher frequencies. And then down here at the lower frequencies, you can see they are different. You can see some differences here, but those are relatively subtle compared to these really prominent features that are happening in this map. So if you put this face lock time frequency map on the same color scale, then this is just going to be really faint and it will be difficult to interpret. OK, so then the final thing you want to do in this project is figure out a way to get this ERP to be plotted on top of this plot. So it looks pretty good like this. Now, I'm not showing the ERP for the nonferrous like part of the signal because that ERP is literally a flat line. There is no ERP for the non-physical part of the signal. It's a flat line, plus some computer rounding error. All right. So good luck. Here is the Matlab code to get you started. It doesn't really do a whole lot to help you, except at least it tells you which variable names I recommend using. And if you use these variable names, that's going to help you when you work through my solution, again, as I've mentioned before, try to work through as much of this project as you can without looking at the solutions. In the next video, I will walk you through how I solved this project.