Now that you are an expert at applying the Filter Hilbert method, in other words, narrowband filtering

it and then applying the Hilbert transform, you actually have all the skills that you need to know

in order to create a time frequency powerplant using the filter Hilbert method instead of using complex,

more like wavelike, convolutional.

And that is the goal of this project.

So you want to create a time frequency powerplant using the filter Hilbert method.

Now, this is going to be using the sample EEG data set, the SPG data set, and essentially you want

to create two figures in this project.

One figure will look like this.

This is time, frequency, power.

And let me see.

If I say, OK, so I don't actually tell you which electorate I'm using, but it's electorate number

30, so if you want to be able to reproduce this graph, you can use electrode number thirty.

And then you also want to create this figure here.

And this figure shows the power spectrum from each filter over all the different frequencies.

So you remember from the previous video on Narrabeen Filtering and the Hilbert Transform that I showed

you, that an important way to evaluate the quality of a filter and fire filter is to take its power

spectrum and basically just investigate the power spectrum.

And essentially it should be, you know, more or less flat and then it should go up, it should be

plateau shaped and then come back down.

And that is what you are seeing here.

So each row in this matrix is the power spectrum from one filter corresponding to one frequency.

So here you loop over frequencies in order to create the time, frequency, power plug.

So each of these rows, so this is very close to zero.

Then it steps up to one and then you can see there's a bit of a transition and that transition is actually

getting wider the higher you go in frequency and then it goes back down to zero gain up to higher frequencies.

Now you can also see that the width of the filter is increasing with increasing frequency.

That's also a pretty common technique used in time frequency analysis that basically want these spectral

windows to get wider and wider as you get higher in frequency.

We do exactly the same thing in Wavelength Convolution.

So good luck working your way through this project.

I didn't really give you a whole lot to go with.

I basically just gave some loose suggestions of some variable names here.

So quite a bit to figure out on your own.

Now, I encourage you to try and work through this just from this script without looking back too much

on the previous videos and without checking out my solutions.

In the next video, I will walk you through my solutions and you'll see how I solved this project.